6-22-2000: Gore officials see the emergence of this issue as an opportunity to link Mr. Bush directly in the public mind with the oil companies and portray Mr. Gore as on the side of working families. This has been a longtime goal of the Gore campaign, but it has not succeeded so far.5-3-2000: Gore Anticrime Proposal  Vice President Al Gore called for a broad array of anticrime measures, among them mandatory drug testing of all prisoners and parolees. His proposal would have the government spend $500 million a year to help states test, treat and counsel prisoners and parolees for drug use.5-3-2000: Bush Aides Fight Back  Aides to Gov. George W. Bush disputed accusations by Vice President Al Gore that Mr. Bush's fiscal proposals were risky. They said economic growth in the last six months meant that there would be enough money to easily accommodate the governor's spending and tax cut proposals.5-4-2000: Gore finds its justification only in what it adds to game play, and when the novelty of blood-spouting necks wore off, I found myself wishing this advanced damage model had served as inspiration for other elements of the game. The creators seem so taken with the depictions of violence that they have neglected the fear and dread that the carnage should inspire in its victims and perpetrators.5-4-2000: Gore and Bush Trade Barbs Over Policy and Style  Vice President Al Gore accused Gov. George W. Bush of devising a ''secret plan'' that could bankrupt the Social Security system. Hours later, Mr. Bush questioned the vice president's honesty and predicted that Mr. Gore's attacks would backfire.5-5-2000: Gore aides said Mr. Gore might have inadvertently become a member through a magazine subscription or some other organization.5-18-2000: Gore's Warning to Retirees  Vice President Al Gore told a convention of older people that Gov. George W. Bush's plan to let workers invest some of their Social Security taxes could jeopardize retirement benefits of current recipients.5-27-2000: Gore's New Campaign Strategy  Vice President Al Gore is to begin a new tack today that will blend personal and biographical details with policy matters in an effort to reach voters on a human level.5-27-2000: Bush Backs Vatican U.N. Status  Gov. George W. Bush took the side of the Vatican in a controversy over its status at the United Nations. The dispute stems largely from Vatican stands on issues involving family planning and abortion.5-27-2000: Gore's New Campaign Strategy  Vice President Al Gore is to begin a new tack today that will blend personal and biographical details with policy matters in an effort to reach voters on a human level.5-27-2000: Bush Backs Vatican U.N. Status  Gov. George W. Bush took the side of the Vatican in a controversy over its status at the United Nations. The dispute stems largely from Vatican stands on issues involving family planning and abortion.5-16-2000: Bush Stakes Out Early Lead  Gov. George W. Bush has emerged at this early stage as the preferred candidate across the demographic spectrum, a New York Times/CBS News Poll found, with Americans preferring him personally to Vice President Al Gore, though Mr. Gore's issue positions are more appealing.5-28-2000: Gore pollster Harrison Hickman went to Capitol Hill the other day to tell Democrats there was some good news: the campaign had conducted a focus group to ask women who would make a better date -- Al Gore or George W. Bush -- and Mr. Gore won.5-28-2000: Gore advisers have believed that the vice president's expertise in international affairs, and particularly arms control, would give him an edge in November.5-28-2000: Gore Faults Bush Plan On Arms Cuts and Defense  Vice President Al Gore, speaking at the United States Military Academy, criticized Gov. George W. Bush's support for a national missile defense system along with a possible one-sided reduction in American nuclear warheads.5-17-2000: Bush Opposes Kosovo Deadline  Gov. George W. Bush criticized a bill backed by fellow Republicans in the Senate that would set a deadline for withdrawing American ground troops from Kosovo.5-17-2000: Bush gets all the breaks. First he gets McCain to meet with him. Now he's planning a powwow with Colin Powell.5-19-2000: Bush may well be able to gamble his wealth on his new Social Security plan, but there are millions of Americans who will need every penny to make ends meet.5-9-2000: Gore Pushes China Trade Bill  Vice President Al Gore spoke more forcefully that he customarily has for permanent normalized trade relations for China, which Congress is to vote on this month. Mr. Gore has been tepid in backing the agreement, largely because organized labor, which backs him, opposes it.5-31-2000: Gore Expands Clinton Plan For Preserving Forests  Vice President Al Gore pledged to put 43 million acres of undeveloped national forests off limits to logging as well as road-building. And he strongly suggested that he would extend the same protections to the Tongass, where conservation efforts have been opposed by Alaska's influential Congressional delegation.5-1-2000: Bush to Press Case For Social Security Change  Gov. George W. Bush intends to begin pressing his case for the establishment of individual investment accounts within Social Security, a change that would be the most far-reaching to the program since it was established in the Depression.5-1-2000: Gore Attacks Bush  Vice President Al Gore, in a major foreign policy speech in Boston, attacked Gov. George W. Bush in a classic incumbent strategy, one made especially classic by Governor Bush's father, then the vice president, against another sitting governor in 1988.5-1-2000: Bush Camp Fires Back  The top foreign policy adviser of Gov. George W. Bush, in response to the Gore speech, said that Vice President Al Gore had misrepresented Mr. Bush's views on how to deal with Russia and China and had taken ''a series of positions that are at complete odds with how he has acted for the past seven years.''5-6-2000: Gore's Proposals on Teachers  Vice President Al Gore promised to spend billions to recruit new teachers and increase teachers' salaries, but only if the states and teachers' unions agreed that all new teachers meet rigorous national standards and only if hiring decisions are based on expertise, not seniority alone.5-24-2000: Bush Backs Arms Cuts And Antimissile System  Gov. George W. Bush, flanked by prominent figures from four Republican administrations, called for a ''new approach to nuclear security,'' one that includes possible unilateral reductions in American nuclear weapons combined with a robust antimissile defense system. Mr. Bush said he wanted to reduce the size of America's nuclear arsenal to the ''lowest possible number consistent with our national security'' and below the levels called for under the START II treaty with Russia.5-15-2000: Gore Camp Seeks Focus  Vice President Al Gore's campaign is struggling to reorient itself toward the general election and many of Mr. Gore's closest advisers concede that Gov. George W. Bush of Texas has outmaneuvered them in appealing to moderate voters.5-15-2000: Gore Jokes Aren't Gore's  The Jewish jokes that Vice President Al Gore used last week turn out to have come from a Web site, which was not credited as the source.5-15-2000: Gore strategists have been concerned for at least a year about polls showing that women preferred Mr. Bush, and Mr. Gore's campaign appearances have emphasized his longstanding women-friendly agenda.5-13-2000: Bush to Offer Trigger Locks  Gov. George W. Bush said he would spend $1 million a year to provide free trigger locks for handgun owners in Texas and, if elected president, would push for a national initiative, at a cost of $65 million a year.5-14-2000: Bush has often said he loves Rove's loyalty, and there is the fact that Rove sold his business to devote all his energies to him. But how the candidate really feels about his chief handler is difficult to say; he doesn't like to see too many articles about the help and initially didn't want to be quoted in this one about Rove. ''We handed him the phone and he refused -- he said he just wasn't going to do it,'' a Bush aide explained apologetically. ''He doesn't mind you doing staff stories,'' this aide added, though no one had suggested that he did. ''But he doesn't always weigh in.''5-22-2000: Gore Ahead in Fund-Raising  Gov. George W. Bush of Texas raised three times more money than Vice President Al Gore last month, but Mr. Gore made up the difference with taxpayer funds and continued to have more money in the bank than his Republican opponent.5-25-2000: Bush's answer: First, trot out the heavy hitters who helped win the cold war. He lined up Nixon-Ford's  Henry Kissinger and Don Rumsfeld, Reagan's George Shultz, his father's Colin Powell and Brent Scowcroft. (No James Baker; forgot his phone number.) One by one, these mainly hard-line heroes endorsed the candidate's call for a limited antimissile system. Kissinger, who wrote the ABM treaty, asserted that it belonged to a long-gone bipolar world.5-25-2000: Bush also made plain what Clintonites know but won't admit: ''This administration is not fully devoted to the development of an antiballistic missile system that will work.''5-25-2000: Gore advisers keep saying that the vice president is ''right on the issues'' and that his positions, from tolerance on social matters like abortion to paying down the national debt, are more in tune with those of a majority of Americans. Nonetheless, political analysts say Mr. Gore seems to have trouble articulating that message.5-25-2000: Gore on Social Security  Vice President Al Gore, explaining a shift in his position, said the stock market was an attractive place for Americans to invest over the long run but not for seeking a solution to Social Security's problems.10-3-2000: Gore supporters disagreed. Silicon Valley's boom, they said, relied heavily on government investment, policies and on federal research grants that helped many of today's best-known corporate names.10-4-2000: Bush and Gore Face Off In First Campaign Debate  Vice President Al Gore and Gov. George W. Bush met in Boston for their first presidential debate, arguing over issues that included taxes, health care and foreign policy.10-5-2000: Bush aides, citing Congress's Joint Committees on Taxation, argue that the estate tax repeal would help an array of taxpayers, like those who inherit small family businesses, and does not just benefit the wealthiest.10-5-2000: Gore again put on display his compulsion to exaggerate. Republicans call it ''the flaming whopper'': after Bush complimented the Federal Emergency Management Agency for its response to fires raging in Texas in 1998, Gore blurted, ''I accompanied [FEMA Director] James Lee Witt down to Texas when those fires broke out.'' Not true; Gore went without Witt, said a few words about the fires at the Houston airport, and continued on to a trial lawyer's fund-raiser, one of those events he likes to call ''donor-related community outreach.''10-5-2000: Bush missed a chance to counterpunch when Gore, with his lifelong pipeline to Occidental Petroleum, went into his populist riff blaming ''the big oil companies'' for oil prices. Bush failed to nail Gore for his election-time flip-flop on dipping into the Strategic Petroleum Reserve.10-5-2000: Gore programmed himself not to appear programmed, but the relentless robot showed through. Not thrice but 10 times on this Rialto did he repeat ''the wealthiest 1 percent,'' his rallying cry of class warfare. Bush's riposte was to point out that his across-the-board tax cuts would benefit the lower middle class more than Gore's more modest tax plan, but that appeal to the already-decideds failed to register.10-5-2000: Gore was undeniably a commanding presence, interrupting, demanding more time, reciting a series of hot-button points, to the brink of bullying both opponent and moderator (though Jim Lehrer kept equal-time discipline). That impulse to domineer probably helped the vice president with men, hurt him with women.10-5-2000: Bush supporters emphasize the middle-class beneficiaries of the tax cut. They also argue that since the wealthiest pay most of the taxes, it is not unjust for them to get most of the benefit. But according to the Treasury Department, the wealthiest 1 percent of taxpayers account for 14.8 percent of total income and 20.1 percent of tax revenues. To give them 42.6 percent of a $1.3 trillion tax cut over 10 years makes no sense -- unless the goal is to comfort the already comfortable. To oppose that idea is not just populism. It is common sense.10-5-2000: Gore aides accused Mr. Bush of making several misstatements in the debate while admitting that Mr. Gore had made some slips himself.10-2-2000: Bush Returns to Tax Cut Plan  After months of burnishing his image as a new Republican with proposals for modest social programs, Gov. George W. Bush has gone into the final sprint of the presidential race by returning his ambitious across-the-board tax cut plan to the center of his campaign.10-2-2000: Gore's Debate Reputation  Vice President Al Gore heads into tomorrow's presidential debate with a reputation as one of the most artful, combative and practiced political debaters in modern history. But most of his practice has come at the expense of fellow Democrats.10-2-2000: Bush and Hague would have no such conflicts in their world views. Hague envisions an expansion of the North American Free Trade Agreement to the European Union, presumably with Britain as the fulcrum. That suits the U.S. more than the goal of a ''United States of Europe,'' dominated by Germany and France, that Clinton-Gore rhetoric tended to encourage.10-20-2000: Gore aides, however, see the distance as a must. ''He said at the convention, 'I am my own man, vote for me.' That's real,'' said Mark Fabiani, the deputy campaign manager. ''It's not some kind of facade where behind it he's seeking Clinton's counsel every day.''10-20-2000: Bush Fires Back at Ads  Gov. George W. Bush, striking back at Democratic commercials attacking his Social Security plan, said Vice President Al Gore was pitting ''grandparents against grandchildren'' for political gain and accused him of not facing up to Social Security's coming fiscal problems.10-27-2000: Bush Raises Character Issue  Gov. George W. Bush, campaigning in western Pennsylvania, questioned the integrity, courage and moral character of Vice President Al Gore and called the presidential race a matter of values.10-27-2000: Gore Woos Progressives  Before more than 30,000 people in Madison, Wis., Ralph Nader territory, Al Gore promoted his own ''progressive values.''10-27-2000: Gore Woos Progressives  Before more than 30,000 people in Madison, Wis., Ralph Nader territory, Al Gore promoted his own ''progressive values.''10-11-2000: Gore campaign officials have said that the toughest remarks will come from surrogates, allowing the candidates themselves to refrain from the kind of slashing attacks that can sully the attacker as well as the target.10-11-2000: Bush campaign officials said the advertisements were part of a ''troubling pattern'' of distortion by Vice President Al Gore. With respect to the environment, the officials said, Governor Bush has strengthened enforcement of the Clean Air Act and helped reduce industrial emissions by 11 percent since 1994.10-11-2000: Bush campaign workers in Florida have mailed pamphlets to older Floridians that accuse Mr. Gore of planning to force elderly people into a ''government-run drug H.M.O.''10-11-2000: Gore aides said they hoped that just as Mr. Bush had benefited from low expectations last week, Mr. Gore's shortcomings in the first debate may lower the bar for him on the remaining two. They maintained that it would be easier for Mr. Gore to correct his problems, which primarily concern personality, than for Mr. Bush to demonstrate a presidential command of the issues.10-28-2000: Bush Picking Words Carefully  Gov. George W. Bush continued a barnstorming tour through Pennsylvania, Ohio and Michigan, often sounding like a Democrat as he conveyed conservative ideas without using conservative buzzwords that might turn off the centrist Democrats and independent voters he needs to win.10-17-2000: Gore advisers said that he would return to themes he emphasized in the first debate, including the role of the Clinton administration in the current economic expansion.10-17-2000: Bush campaign officials insist that the so-called truth squad is often untruthful and is guilty of nonstop negative campaigning.10-17-2000: Gore supporters, on the other hand, have been especially vociferous in their criticism. Among their complaints is that in the second debate Mr. Lehrer said, incorrectly, that there were Gore commercials depicting Mr. Bush as a bungler. They also noted that in several of the exchanges at the end of the debate Mr. Lehrer allowed Mr. Bush to get the last word.10-10-2000: Gore campaign and Democratic Party officials say they are not impressed. They have spent no money for commercials in California, and they dismiss the Republican move as a feint to prompt them to start spending.10-10-2000: Bush campaign officials said that Friday's subpoena sought materials that the campaign manager, Joe Allbaugh, had promised at a Sept. 15 meeting to give to the authorities.10-19-2000: Gore officials contend that Mr. Bush made two major blunders in the debate. The governor agreed that ''of course'' most of his tax cut would go to the wealthiest 1 percent of Americans, because, as Mr. Bush said, they are the ones who pay the most taxes. And he said that his plan to privatize part of Social Security would cost $1 trillion, money that would come from the Social Security trust fund -- an admission that Mr. Gore said today essentially conceded that Mr. Bush would bankrupt Social Security in 23 years, 14 years sooner than was now projected.10-19-2000: Bush Rallies His Base  Gov. George W. Bush argued that Vice President Al Gore would endanger the nation's prosperity as a proponent of ''big government,'' and he used his own pledge of tax cutting to rally his party's base in Wisconsin.10-19-2000: Bush Rallies His Base  Gov. George W. Bush argued that Vice President Al Gore would endanger the nation's prosperity as a proponent of ''big government,'' and he used his own pledge of tax cutting to rally his party's base in Wisconsin.10-19-2000: Bush dismayed his supporters at first by failing to counterpunch when given clear openings. Gore's claim to have cut the federal payroll by 300,000 cried out for the easy comeback: Almost all of that was in Defense Department reduction after the Reagan-Bush cold-war victory. And Gore's campaign finance piety invited a sharp riposte: He's all for putting the barn door in a lockbox after stealing the fund-raising horse.10-26-2000: Gore Muddles His Economic Ideas  Since the political conventions, Vice President Al Gore has emphasized the fiscal discipline of his agenda and referred less to programs for working families, confusing his message in the process. Jeff Madrick: Economic Scene. [C2.]10-26-2000: Bush's White House chief of staff would be Dan Evans and his Counselor, Karen Hughes, with Karl Rove to the R.N.C. and manager Joe Allbaugh set free to earn a living. Gore's chief would be William Daley and his Counselor Frank Hunger, with Fred Meyer to the D.N.C.10-26-2000: Bush's Mike Gerson or Gore's Eli Attey will draft the Inaugural Address. The other guy will go home and write a book.10-26-2000: Gore's Russia Deal Called Legal  A 1995 deal signed by Vice President Al Gore and Viktor S. Chernomyrdin, the former Russian prime minister, allowing Russia to sell weapons to Iran without the United States imposing economic sanctions, was legal and did not threaten security, State Department officials told the Senate Foreign Relations Committee.10-26-2000: Bush Makes Case to Floridians  Gov. George W. Bush made an aggressive appeal to elderly voters in Florida, pitching his Social Security and Medicare plans and accusing Vice President Al Gore of employing scare tactics.10-26-2000: Gore campaign officials profess confidence.10-21-2000: Bush Would Reshape NATO And Recast Nations' Roles  If elected president, George W. Bush plans to tell NATO that the United States should no longer participate in peacekeeping in the Balkans, signaling a major new division of labor in the Western alliance, according to his senior national security aide, Condoleezza Rice. Peacekeeping in Bosnia and Kosovo, and possibly elsewhere, would be a European responsibility. The United States would focus on deterring and fighting wars in the Persian Gulf, Asia and other distant trouble spots.10-7-2000: Bush Finds Validation on Putin10-7-2000: Bush's Plan to Fight Drugs  Gov. George W. Bush accused the Clinton administration of fighting illicit drugs ''without urgency, without energy and without success'' and proposed $2.7 billion in grants to groups and schools to combat narcotics and provide treatment.10-9-2000: Gore Plans to Delegate Attacks  Vice President Al Gore's campaign is planning a multimedia offensive this week that assails Gov. George W. Bush over his record in Texas and his occasional slips of the tongue, Gore aides said. The strategy calls for Mr. Gore to delegate attacks so he can remain above the fray.10-9-2000: Gore aides said the campaign had long planned to focus attention on Mr. Bush's record in the four weeks before the Nov. 7 election. But the timing takes on additional significance because of the continuing closeness of the race after the candidates' first debate last week and because of the Bush campaign's efforts to label Mr. Gore as a ''serial exaggerator.'' Those words were used today by Mr. Bush's chief strategist, Karl Rove, in an interview on CNN.10-31-2000: Bush Is Pushing Hard To Take California  Gov. George W. Bush campaigned in California instead of more closely contested Midwestern states, portraying Vice President Al Gore as someone who practices the ''politics of division'' and suggesting the Republicans would carry the state, a cornerstone of the last two Democratic Presidential victories.10-31-2000: Gore campaign officials said the Democratic strategy has been to take aim at Nader supporters by emphasizing what is dear to them. ''We believe that many Nader voters are concerned about freedom of choice, the environment, and don't want to see those issues put at risk by a Bush presidency,'' said a Gore spokesman, Doug Hattaway.10-30-2000: Gore Campaign Challenges Bush's Ability to Be Leader  Vice President Al Gore's wife and his running mate -- but not Mr. Gore himself -- portrayed Gov. George W. Bush as too inexperienced to be president, an argument the Gore campaign hopes will help derail the Bush candidacy. Mr. Gore cast the presidential election as a chance for people to reject the influence of special interests, saying at a rally in Michigan, ''This country belongs to you, and I want to give it back to you.''10-30-2000: Gore and Globalization10-30-2000: Bush and the I.M.F.10-8-2000: Bush, 47, grins at the praise. ''I'm a camouflage decorator,'' he says, modestly allowing that he has a passion for transforming the disreputable into the deluxe. ''Not everybody wants to blow out the walls and start over from scratch,'' he adds, plainly puzzled by the notion of bulldozer decorating. ''There's nothing wrong with working with what's already there and making it better.''10-1-2000: Gore's staff tends to steer clear of her, as a surprising number of his aides have remarked in passing over the last year. They see her as high-maintenance and hard to please -- as demanding as he is. The advice given one new hire in his office was this: When she calls, say yes and keep moving. She is not at all uptight in some ways. A former baby sitter who went on vacation with the Gores when their four children were young remembers being embarrassed by her frank references to their apparently robust sex life. ''I had never been around an adult who talked openly like that,'' said the woman, Karen Spears, who was 18 at the time. And the vice president's wife didn't consider it any big deal when she played matchmaker to her two hairdressers: conveniently for her, the guy who cuts her hair in New York and the guy who cuts her hair in Washington are a couple now.10-6-2000: Gore's Embellishments  Republicans complained about the accuracy of several of Vice President Al Gore's statements in his debate with Gov. George W. Bush, and even some Democrats expressed puzzlement over Mr. Gore's repeated missteps in this regard.10-15-2000: Gore was reacting to Gore, like the sheriff in ''Blazing Saddles'' who holds a gun to his own head and takes himself hostage. W. seemed almost like a bemused spectator at the vice president's split-personality psychodrama. And since Mr. Gore was afraid to show his smarts and his contempt for W., the pair came across as a couple of regular guys running for student body president.10-15-2000: Gore campaign officials say they feel enormous pressure because they have less to spend than the Republicans, who are spreading resources in more states. Advisers to Mr. Gore said they would decide after the St. Louis debate whether to give up on some major states -- Ohio and Louisiana are among the possibilities -- and pump resources elsewhere.10-12-2000: Gore and Bush Meet In 2nd Campaign Debate  Vice President Al Gore and Gov. George W. Bush, seated side-by-side, agreed more than they disagreed in a subdued and generally cordial debate on foreign policy and domestic matters like racial profiling, gun control and same-sex marriage.10-13-2000: Bush Camp Hails Debate; Gore Hits at Texas Record  The candidates campaigned in swing states. Vice President Al Gore pressed his attack on George W. Bush's record as governor of Texas, and the Bush campaign exulted in what it saw as a pivotal moment in the race -- Wednesday's debate.10-14-2000: Bush Cautiously Raises Mideast as Campaign Issue  Gov. George W. Bush continued to express support for the Clinton administration's approach to increased violence in the Middle East. But he and his running mate, Dick Cheney, also signaled that they were prepared to make events in the Middle East a part of the campaign debate, finding ways to frame recent events there as an argument for their election and a validation of their positions on oil imports, the Strategic Petroleum Reserve and the strength and use of the military.10-22-2000: Gore campaign officials clearly believe that Ms. Rice's remarks provide them with an opening in the final weeks of the campaign to paint Mr. Bush as naive and inexperienced in foreign affairs and to argue that his policies would harm American interests abroad.10-22-2000: Gore Attacks Bush on Balkans  Mr. Gore and Secretary of State Madeleine K. Albright denounced a proposal by Gov. George W. Bush to withdraw United States ground forces from their peacekeeping mission in the Balkans.10-22-2000: Gore officials said that they would double their spending on television advertisements to $4 million next week, and match the Republicans in television spending for the rest of the campaign. They said their commercials would amplify the idea that Mr. Bush was not ''up to the job'' of being president.10-25-2000: Bush Pledge Alarms Europeans  European diplomats, officials and analysts expressed disfavor for a promise by George W. Bush that if elected president he will negotiate removal of American troops from Balkan peacekeeping duties and leave such work to Europeans.10-25-2000: Bush Pledge Alarms Europeans  European diplomats, officials and analysts expressed disfavor for a promise by George W. Bush that if elected president he will negotiate removal of American troops from Balkan peacekeeping duties and leave such work to Europeans.7-4-2000: Gore Links Drug Makers And G.O.P. to High Costs  Vice President Al Gore accused drug makers of ''price-gouging'' and ''special interest schemes'' to keep prices high, as he began a weeklong drive on an issue that has emerged as one of the most potent this election season -- the rising cost of prescription drugs. His speech to an elderly crowd in Missouri also sought to link Gov. George W. Bush and Congressional Republicans to the pharmaceutical industry.7-20-2000: Gore Won't Name Names7-18-2000: Bush on a Running Mate  Gov. George W. Bush said for the first time that he was closing in on choosing a running mate.7-18-2000: Gore Closing the Gap  Vice President Al Gore called attention to a new CNN/USA Today poll that showed him trailing Gov. George W. Bush by only two points, 43 percent to 45 percent.7-27-2000: Bush and Cheney Hit the Campaign Trail  Gov. George W. Bush and his new running mate, Dick Cheney, visited the vice-presidential contender's home state, Wyoming, defending Mr. Cheney's conservative voting record and vowing that the ticket would ''renew America's purpose.''7-27-2000: Gore Seeks Jackson's Aid  Vice President Al Gore, campaigning in Chicago, urged members of the Rev. Jesse Jackson's organization, the Rainbow/PUSH Coalition, to support him and work to defeat the ''old guard'' represented by the Republican ticket. Mr. Jackson was once a bitter rival of Mr. Gore's, but is now a close ally.7-11-2000: Gore Challenges Do-Nothing-for-People Congress. Video available via satellite and webcast.7-11-2000: Bush at N.A.A.C.P. Convention  Gov. George W. Bush, speaking at the N.A.A.C.P.'s annual convention, said that ''the party of Lincoln has not always carried the mantle of Lincoln'' and pledged that ''strong civil rights enforcement will be a cornerstone of my administration.''7-11-2000: Gore Attacks Congress  Vice President Al Gore took a new tack in his presidential campaign, beginning a series of broadsides against the Republican-controlled Congress and seeking to align Gov. George W. Bush with anti-populist stands. His attacks came in a speech at Central Connecticut State University.7-11-2000: Bush at N.A.A.C.P. Convention  Gov. George W. Bush, speaking at the N.A.A.C.P.'s annual convention, said that ''the party of Lincoln has not always carried the mantle of Lincoln'' and pledged that ''strong civil rights enforcement will be a cornerstone of my administration.''7-11-2000: Gore Attacks Congress  Vice President Al Gore took a new tack in his presidential campaign, beginning a series of broadsides against the Republican-controlled Congress and seeking to align Gov. George W. Bush with anti-populist stands. His attacks came in a speech at Central Connecticut State University.7-17-2000: Gore and Bush Speak On TV News Programs  Vice President Al Gore and Gov. George W. Bush gave voters a chance for the first time to make a side-by-side comparison as the two sat for hourlong interviews on network television.7-26-2000: Bush Names Cheney As G.O.P. Running Mate  Gov. George W. Bush formally introduced Dick Cheney, a former defense secretary and a longtime family friend, as his choice for vice president, praising Mr. Cheney, 59, as a man of ''great integrity, sound judgment and experience.''7-26-2000: Bush Names Cheney As G.O.P. Running Mate  Gov. George W. Bush formally introduced Dick Cheney, a former defense secretary and a longtime family friend, as his choice for vice president, praising Mr. Cheney, 59, as a man of ''great integrity, sound judgment and experience.''7-21-2000: Gore aides conceded that today's event was aimed chiefly at voters beyond Texas, particularly swing voters, women and core Democrats who may find the governor an appealing figure, but who would be offended at what Mr. Gore tried to portray as Mr. Bush's disregard for health care, children and the environment.7-7-2000: Gore Hits Bush on Medicare; Bradley to Offer His Support  Vice President Al Gore sharply contrasted his Medicare proposals with those of Gov. George W. Bush.7-9-2000: Bush Terminal in the Sunset Park section of Brooklyn is a 5-million-square-foot complex of buildings that have sat underutilized on the waterfront since the 1960's, when containerized ocean shipping replaced labor-intensive methods of loading and unloading ships.7-9-2000: Bush Terminal was also called Industry City because it was one of the first industrial parks in the nation. Industry has gone elsewhere, but the current owner, a private partnership named Industry City Associates, and the brokers who represent them are trying to convert it to a technology campus. This includes cutting vertical shafts called risers in the buildings, so that each tenant will have multiple connections to power and telecommunications cables.7-9-2000: Gore could use that kind of magic. But even were he to dare go for a spine-tingling choice, the problem he faces is that there is a dearth of spine-tingling choices. Republicans eagerly reel off a host of governors and up-and-comers in Congress with compelling biographies, from Gov. Tom Ridge of Pennsylvania and Gov. Frank Keating of Oklahoma to Senator John McCain of Arizona and Senator Chuck Hagel of Nebraska to Representative John Kasich of Ohio to Elizabeth Dole. Ask Democrats their favorites, and there is, almost always, a moment of silence. Then they end up resurrecting the names of people who have been passed over before. One close friend of Gore's, a figure in Democratic politics for decades, is downright unsettled. ''Names come up that may be sound but there are no home runs in the crowd. Who is out there who would lead people to say, 'Al Gore strikes a home run'? For the life of me, I can't imagine who it is.''7-9-2000: Gore expressed no such qualms when Christopher tracked him down in Rio, where he was attending an environmental conference. There was one proviso: Gore asked for 24 hours to think over whether he wanted to be a finalist. Some Clinton advisers wondered whether Gore -- who long nursed presidential ambitions of his own -- was playing too hard-to-get. Christopher, having seen people make wrongheaded decisions when they were abroad, approved of his prudence.7-9-2000: Gore, of course, did not change his mind. He allowed his name to be put forth, as did the four others on the list: Senator Bob Graham of Florida, Senator Harris Wofford of Pennsylvania, Representative Lee Hamilton of Indiana and Senator Bob Kerrey of Nebraska. Clinton met secretly with each of these contenders, mostly at the Capital Hilton, a few blocks from the White House. On June 30, Gore was spirited through a back door for what had been planned as an hourlong session, the length allotted for all the finalists. Clinton and Gore started talking at 10 p.m. and were still chatting well past 1 a.m. They got so comfortable that eventually they both stretched out on the floor, their backs against two couches as they faced one another.7-9-2000: Gore insists that he's not interested in springing a splashy surprise. That may be because he really doesn't think it matters -- or because there are no splashy candidates and he is trying to lower expectations. ''I don't think the drama has more than transitory value,'' he says. ''It needs to feel right.''7-9-2000: Gore was not ready to talk in any kind of detail about his choices or his way of arriving at them. What he did seem eager to do was convey that he was relaxed about the process. At the conclusion of our interview, Gore had a question for me. ''How old are you?'' he asked. ''Older than 35?''7-30-2000: Bushido Fencing Center, 118 Broadway, Hillsdale; (201) 666-3550. Group lessons, age 9 and older; also offers yoga exercises for fencers.7-30-2000: Bush Plans Wide Appeal In His Convention Speech  Gov. George W. Bush said that in his speech to the Republican National Convention he would go out of his way to direct his appeal to the widest possible audience, including Democrats and independents.7-1-2000: Gore Criticizes Drug Makers  Vice President Al Gore, accusing the pharmaceutical industry of ''corporate chutzpah'' over prices and profits, promised to take on drug makers next week at campaign stops. But a review of his record makes it clear that his views are more nuanced than his language suggests.7-1-2000: Gore Criticizes Drug Makers  Vice President Al Gore, accusing the pharmaceutical industry of ''corporate chutzpah'' over prices and profits, promised to take on drug makers next week at campaign stops. But a review of his record makes it clear that his views are more nuanced than his language suggests.7-6-2000: Bush Antiques, at 2109 Magazine Street, has F.F.F. (fine French furniture), but also small interesting pieces -- like the metal chandelier that Ms. Parlange easily reinvented with tinted silver leaf.7-6-2000: Bush Addresses Hispanic Group  Gov. George W. Bush told members of the National Council of La Raza, one of the nation's largest and most influential Hispanic groups, that he was on a mission to topple any stereotypes that Republicans are insensitive to minority groups and new immigrants. And he sought to demonstrate his own compassion by proposing to spend an additional $100 million in annual federal spending to expedite foreigners' applications to immigrate.7-23-2000: Bush Seeking Safe Choice  Gov. George W. Bush seems to be steering toward the safe and solid in seeking a vice president, partly because the job is increasingly seen as more than an understudy role.7-15-2000: Bush-Pataki Ticket Explored  George W. Bush met privately with Gov. George E. Pataki of New York to talk about the vice presidency.7-15-2000: Bush Gives a Hand to Lazio  George W. Bush offered his support for Representative Rick A. Lazio's Senate bid, belittling Hillary Rodham Clinton with a familiar critique before an audience of Conservative Party donors in Manhattan.7-12-2000: Gore on Patients' Rights  Vice President Al Gore, speaking at the University of Arkansas for Medical Sciences, prodded Gov. George W. Bush of Texas to get behind the patients' bill of rights before Congress.7-12-2000: Bush Promotes Adoption  Gov. George W. Bush, speaking in Michigan, said that ''foster care ought to be a bridge to adoption'' and called for measures to promote adoption.7-12-2000: Gore on Patients' Rights  Vice President Al Gore, speaking at the University of Arkansas for Medical Sciences, prodded Gov. George W. Bush of Texas to get behind the patients' bill of rights before Congress.7-12-2000: Bush Promotes Adoption  Gov. George W. Bush, speaking in Michigan, said that ''foster care ought to be a bridge to adoption'' and called for measures to promote adoption.7-13-2000: Gore Courts Black Voters  Al Gore summoned black voters to support his presidential candidacy, citing his long commitment to their cause and deriding Gov. George W. Bush as offering only words.9-3-2000: Gore called his 1992 manifesto on environmentalism ''Earth in the Balance''; an alternative title for ''The Prince of Tennessee'' might be ''A Life in the Balance.'' The balance is not always comfortable, and the authors depict a character far more complex and conflicted than the man he would succeed in the White House. Where Maraniss's essential biography of Bill Clinton, ''First in His Class,'' was painted in great swaths of color, this is more a work of pointillism, myriad small dots of reportage brought together to form a vivid portrait.9-3-2000: Gore has spent his entire life on Page 1; he was raised to belong there. When he was 6 his parents were already planting media stories of his precocity, showcasing ''another Gore on the way toward the political pinnacle.'' Perhaps unsurprisingly, given these circumstances, at every critical stage in his life Gore seems to have been aware of an unseen but omnipresent biographer, hovering behind his shoulder, taking notes. ''I was a real little politician,'' he once said, somewhat sadly, of his own childhood. From the earliest years almost every strategic decision, in the authors' phrase, appears to have been underpinned by ''thinking politically on a longer arc.''9-3-2000: Bush's prose favors philosophical questioning over bloody engagement, and this too is Arcadia's preferred modus operandi. Armed with her degree in war studies (not peace or defense but war, a bald fact that pleases her), Arcadia probes conflict and its ethical dilemmas from a decent distance. She is not a war junkie, not addicted to the glamour of sniper fire, of the shells cascading onto Sarajevo's Holiday Inn. She examines the methodology and morality of intervention in Bosnia, never having been near Srebrenica. She notes the new imbalance in the casualties of war, the massive slaughter of civilians in Rwanda, never having been a spectator (a ''witness,'' as a war correspondent friend insists) to those atrocities.9-3-2000: Bush probes these matters in only occasionally undigested chunks of information, of questioning. This is a novel, after all, not a treatise. Arcadia is not in its pages merely to wonder about how we avoid or embrace passivity in an age of global, instant information about every available conflict. She is also a sexual being, a troubled being.9-3-2000: Bush's prose, mostly plain and restrained, lurches into the sensuous when describing sex or cities. She writes a love letter to England, its fields smelling of ''fog and peat,'' and to London with its spreading trees and sudden bursts of pastoral beauty. Later, she will lavish equal love on Toronto, caressing its street names, the sounds of the streetcars, the melting heat of its summers. Her heroine sees London's canals and Toronto's ravines as hidden places of possibility, invisible borderlands where the strange or the deadly may happen out of sight of the mundane world.9-3-2000: Bush therefore spins connections, crisscrossing her philosophical construct. Set in counterpoint to Arcadia's deconstructions of the practice of modern war are the experiences of actual victims: Amir, who has fled Iran, and a Somali refugee named Basra (recalling the Iraqi city, a name altered in Western consciousness by the gulf war). Their losses, their dislocations, their slipping across borders, their altered identities, their real and pressing requirement for safety all act as a counterbalance to Arcadia's own exile and desires. These people and their needs become a moral testing ground. Through them, she will find an expiation of sorts, though not where she expects.9-4-2000: Bush Offers Debate Dates And Tries to Turn Tables  Trying to end questions about his willingness to debate and turn the tables on his opponent, Gov. George W. Bush announced a schedule of three hand-picked debates that he wanted to do, only one of which is guaranteed to be broadcast on the three major networks. Mr. Bush pointedly challenged Vice President Al Gore to meet him on these chosen dates and terms. His idea drew an immediate reaction from Mr. Gore, who said he was ''very disappointed.''9-4-2000: Bush pioneered the whining strategy in the primaries with his orchestrated offense-taking at John McCain for slamming evangelicals who were hinting the former captive was crazy; McCain then retreated into the rictus of a forced smile. But when Bush tried to repeat this don't-touch-Mr.-Nice-Guy tactic against an expected Gore onslaught, he ran into world-class, hand-over-the-heart counter-whining mournfully accusing him of ''changing his tune about changing the tone.''9-4-2000: Gore aides also said that Mr. Bush was deliberately trying to shrink the audience because unless there was blanket coverage, viewers would likely stray to other programming.9-2-2000: Bush Defends Attack Ad As Response to Gore Ads  Gov. George W. Bush, interviewed aboard his campaign plane, defended a new ad that challenged the credibility and character of Vice President Al Gore, saying it was a way to counter Gore ads against him. He also signaled that his frequent pledge to ''change the tone'' of politics would not prevent him from raising questions about Mr. Gore's truthfulness and leadership abilities.9-2-2000: Bush campaign officials have recently indicated that they are not happy with some aspects of the debates organized by the bipartisan commission, which has supervised the presidential debates since 1988. They have said their objections include the plan to broadcast all three debates in prime time, and the holding of the first debate at the University of Massachusetts in Boston because the location is adjacent to the John F. Kennedy Library, an institution commemorating a Democratic president.9-20-2000: Bush on 'Oprah'  Gov. George W. Bush appeared on Oprah Winfrey's program, whose audience is three-fourths women, sitting for an interview that emphasized biography over policy.9-18-2000: Bush Makes New Pitch To Attract Middle-Class  Gov. George W. Bush said he was determined to convince middle-income voters that they would fare better under his proposals than under Vice President Al Gore's, and he released a new campaign document, ''Blueprint for the Middle Class,'' outlining his proposals.9-18-2000: Bush officials have privately said that their biggest fear was that people would begin to question their candidate's weightiness. Now, many Republicans said, with the Olympics in progress, they are particularly worried that Mr. Bush will probably  not have a chance to define himself better until the first of his three debates with Mr. Gore, on Oct. 3.9-27-2000: Gore Takes Campaign to MTV  Vice President Al Gore participated in an MTV forum in which, among other topics, he explained his support for civil unions between homosexuals, his opposition to the legalization of medical marijuana and his distaste for misogynistic music.9-27-2000: Bush and the Conservatives  Even as Gov. George W. Bush is playing down his conservative ties, conservative groups are working hard to get him elected.9-27-2000: Bush and the Conservatives  Even as Gov. George W. Bush is playing down his conservative ties, conservative groups are working hard to get him elected.9-11-2000: Gore vs. Entertainment Ads  Vice President Al Gore and his Democratic running mate, Senator Joseph I. Lieberman, said that if the entertainment industry does not stop marketing violent films, recordings and video games to children, they would propose legislation or new regulatory authority allowing the federal government to sanction the industry. Mr. Gore said he would give industry officials six months to ''clean up their act.''9-11-2000: Bush and his running mate should be hammering away at this survival issue. If Dick Cheney were the Republican serving in Clinton's cabinet, and if the President overruled him on the most important policy decision at the Pentagon, would he continue to serve and shut up? Cheney should call on the rebuffed defense secretary to put the public interest first, to step down and speak out.9-29-2000: Gore aides say the purpose is for these people, all of whom Mr. Gore has met in campaign appearances, to help brief the vice president about the concerns of real Americans.9-29-2000: Gore Hits Bush Tax Cuts  Vice President Al Gore said ''prosperity itself will be on the ballot'' on Nov. 7 and portrayed Gov. George W. Bush's tax cut proposal as a threat to the country's economic health.9-29-2000: Bush Hits Gore Spending Plans  Gov. George W. Bush tacitly praised President Clinton's past calls for an end to ''big government'' and said Vice President Al Gore was endangering prosperity by having ''cast his lot with the old Democratic party'' in proposing a new level of federal spending and regulation.9-17-2000: Bush and Gore Focus On 10 Crucial States  Vice President Al Gore, who has erased Gov. George W. Bush's lead in most national polls, has also edged ahead of him in the battle for electoral votes, according to independent and partisan analysts. But several major states are still tossups.9-17-2000: Bush Theater, Shepherds Bush Green, London W12; (44-207) 610-4224. (Closed for refurbishment until Oct. 24).9-10-2000: Bush officials and consultants, and officials at the Republican National Committee, are wrestling with a variety of options, from a commercial that shows Mr. Gore turning into a chameleon to one questioning the validity of his budget plan.9-19-2000: Bush Courts Middle Class  Gov. George W. Bush opened a six-day, nine-state drive to showcase proposals intended to appeal to middle-income Americans, asserting that his tax cut plan would relieve the pressure on parents who work more than one job.9-19-2000: Gore on Women's Health Care  Vice President Al Gore promoted his plans for improving women's health care and accepted the Teamsters' endorsement at their convention.9-26-2000: Gore on Medicare H.M.O.'s  Vice President Al Gore pledged to strengthen sanctions against H.M.O.'s that pull out of the Medicare market and to eliminate Medicare co-payments and deductibles for various preventative tests.9-26-2000: Bush's Education Complaints  Gov. George W. Bush said the Clinton administration had helped create an ''education recession'' in which minority and low-income students were routinely allowed to fail.9-21-2000: Gore Chastises Drug Makers  Vice President Al Gore accused pharmaceutical companies of gouging elderly people, citing as examples several people he said were having problems paying for their medicine. He omitted any reference to his mother-in-law's situation, details of which Republicans and some news reports have challenged.9-7-2000: Gore Says Prosperity Will Fuel Economic Goals  President Al Gore offered his economic vision for the future, a book-length plan that hinged on optimistic fiscal forecasts and offered a mountain of detail. He said the 10 economic goals he outlined were attainable, given the nation's current prosperity, including cutting poverty below 10 percent, raising the level of home ownership and creating 10 million new high-technology jobs.9-9-2000: Bush Yields on Debates And Will Seek Compromise  Gov. George W. Bush abandoned his effort to impose his own schedule of presidential debates, and his campaign said it was prepared to sit down with aides to Vice President Al Gore to work out an agreement for debating under the auspices of a bipartisan commission.9-9-2000: Gore's Son's Surgeon Hailed9-30-2000: Bush Energy Plan Favors More Domestic Exploration  Gov. George W. Bush, saying the Clinton administration has been shortsighted, outlined a broad energy plan that calls for more domestic fuel production, better relations with foreign suppliers and the opening of the Arctic National Wildlife Refuge for drilling, all of which he framed as potential remedies for rising oil and gas prices. He also offered incentives for developing alternative energy sources and clean-burning fuels.9-30-2000: Gore Sees Danger in Bush Plan  Vice President Al Gore criticized the Bush proposal to open Alaska's protected wilderness to oil drilling, saying it would bring ''decades of environmental damage to reap just a few months of increased oil supply.''9-8-2000: Bush Scoffs at Grumbling, But Moves to Recast Image  Gov. George W. Bush dismissed criticism from some Republicans over the direction of his campaign, but he also called himself ''the underdog'' and said he would restyle his campaign to put him in more intimate settings with voters. A poll by ABC News and The Washington Post had the race tied, with Mr. Bush and Mr. Gore each attracting 47 percent, while a Gallup poll for CNN and USA Today put Mr. Gore in the lead, 47 percent to 44 percent.9-8-2000: Bush Scoffs at Grumbling, But Moves to Recast Image  Gov. George W. Bush dismissed criticism from some Republicans over the direction of his campaign, but he also called himself ''the underdog'' and said he would restyle his campaign to put him in more intimate settings with voters. A poll by ABC News and The Washington Post had the race tied, with Mr. Bush and Mr. Gore each attracting 47 percent, while a Gallup poll for CNN and USA Today put Mr. Gore in the lead, 47 percent to 44 percent.9-1-2000: Bush Ad Mocks Gore Character  Aides to Gov. George W. Bush said they had approved a television advertisement that strikes directly at Vice President Al Gore's character. They said the ad was intended as a ''tongue-in-cheek'' response to critical Democratic ads.9-1-2000: Goren said the Green Bay Packers at Denver Broncos preseason game provided an excellent example.9-6-2000: Bush Prescription Plan Is Overhaul of Medicare  Gov. George W. Bush proposed an overhaul of the 35-year-old Medicare program that would encourage recipients to choose subsidized private health insurance plans offering prescription drug coverage and would also pay the full cost of drug coverage for the low-income elderly.9-6-2000: Gore's Economic Vision  The Gore campaign issued an economic blueprint for the next decade, including a $300 billion rainy day fund, a commitment to eliminate the national debt and goals that included increasing family incomes, reducing poverty and narrowing the gap in wages between men and women.9-24-2000: Gore campaign officials said tonight that they had temporarily removed a junior staff aide because he had given incorrect information to ABC News, but they said the aide had nothing to do with the transmission of confidential information from the Bush campaign to Gore associates.9-24-2000: Gore campaign officials said tonight that they had temporarily removed a junior staff aide because he had given incorrect information to ABC News, but they said the aide had nothing to do with the transmission of confidential information from the Bush campaign to Gore associates.9-23-2000: Gore aides distributed news accounts from last year that they said showed Mr. Bush's running mate, Dick Cheney, then heading an energy-services company, praising OPEC for driving up oil prices.9-23-2000: Gore associates said he made himself available today to end the increasing number of stories that he was inaccessible. Still, asked if he would hold a news conference once a week, he avoided answering. ''We'll talk about that at the next one,'' he said.9-15-2000: Gore aides and spokesmen for the entertainment executives emphasized that Mr. Gore and Mr. Lieberman had criticized only the industry's marketing techniques, not the content of its products. Furthermore, said Jennifer Backus, a Democratic National Committee spokeswoman, ''Al Gore and Joe Lieberman aren't afraid to tell their friends that they disagree with them.''9-15-2000: Bush Accepts 3-Debate Plan  Gov. George W. Bush withdrew objections to a bipartisan panel's debate schedule, agreeing to three 90-minute prime-time encounters with Vice President Al Gore next month on college campuses in Boston, Winston-Salem, N.C., and St. Louis.9-15-2000: Gore at Musical Fund-Raiser  Vice President Al Gore and Senator Joseph I. Lieberman headlined a musical benefit for the Democratic Party in Manhattan that featured many popular music stars. Republicans said the event undercut recent Democratic efforts to curb entertainment industry marketing practices.9-13-2000: Bush Asserts Control  Gov. George W. Bush is reducing his informal meetings with reporters in the hope that they will focus more on his scheduled events.9-13-2000: Gore campaign aides went nuts when they figured out that a Republican ad lacing into the vice president on prescription drugs had one frame that flashed the word ''RATS'' in big white letters, as a Cubist fragment of the word ''bureaucrats.''9-14-2000: Gore, primed well in advance, expressed profound ''disappointment'' at this Orwellian mass hypnosis. Joe Lieberman bowed his head, presumably in prayer for the Republic in its moment of peril.9-22-2000: Bush campaign officials say efforts by the governors provide a major asset in helping to offset the widespread political connections Al Gore has built over nearly eight years as vice president, including the Democratic governors who are working for him, like Parris N. Glendening of Maryland and Gray Davis of California.9-22-2000: Gore Urges Tapping Into Oil Reserve  Vice President Al Gore said that the White House should release a modest amount of oil from government stockpiles to stablize oil prices, a move that Gov. George W. Bush immediately denounced as a political ploy that could endanger national security. [A1.]9-22-2000: Gore Seeks Oil Release To Stabilize Prices  Vice President Al Gore said the White House should release a modest amount of oil from government stockpiles to stabilize oil prices, a move that Gov. George W. Bush denounced as a political ploy that could endanger national security.9-25-2000: Bush advisers said that F.B.I. investigators in Austin had visited Mr. McKinnon's offices and had interviewed some of the people who work there as well as many, but not all, of the senior officials in the Bush campaign.8-3-2000: Bush Family Values8-4-2000: Bush Accepts Nomination Promising 'Great Goals'  Gov. George W. Bush pledged to ''confront the hard issues -- threats to our national security, threats to our health and retirement security'' that he said the Clinton administration ducked, and he spelled out his agenda. Though much of his text was upbeat, he also jabbed at the President and Vice President Al Gore.8-5-2000: Gore Returns G.O.P. Fire, Citing Years of Prosperity  Vice President Al Gore, campaigning in Chicago, accused the Republicans of running a showy but insubstantial convention, and he strongly claimed credit for having helped create the nation's roaring economy.8-5-2000: Bush Seeks to Build Momentum  Gov. George W. Bush and his running mate, Dick Cheney, campaigned by plane, train and automobile in Pennsylvania, Ohio and Michigan, swing states the Democrats carried in the last two presidential elections.8-2-2000: Bush Pere believes his manners toward his successor have been impeccable, and that he has been discreet out of loyalty to the office.8-20-2000: Gore officials said they would focus largely on the battleground states of the Midwest and make particular appeals to women who seemed enticed by the Republicans. They also said they would continue to cite Mr. Bush's record in Texas as demonstrating his failure to tackle health care for children, improving the environment, gun control and other issues.8-20-2000: Bush campaign officials said they were working with state Republican Party organizations to develop programs to identify potential supporters and encourage them to vote. The Gore campaign is making such efforts as well, but is more reliant on unions to help drive turnout.8-20-2000: Gore campaign officials said they were pleased that during their convention they had made significant inroads in presenting Mr. Gore as more than a vice president but as a nominee with a populist streak who will energetically fight for ''working families'' -- a favorite Gore phrase -- on issues ranging from health care to Social Security.8-20-2000: Bush campaign advisers and supporters seem almost preoccupied over the possibility that the Democrats will begin broadcasting harsh commercials that try to scare voters away from their candidate -- all in a drive to gain an edge over Bush.8-18-2000: Gore Defines Himself And Outlines His Goals  Vice President Al Gore made his debut as the Democratic presidential nominee with a vow to work for all Americans, ''especially those who need a voice, those who need a champion, those who need to be lifted up so they are never left behind.''8-18-2000: Bush Agrees to 3 Debates  Advisers to Gov. George W. Bush said he would participate in three presidential debates, an announcement intended to blunt criticism from the Gore campaign that Mr. Bush was trying to avoid such face-to-face contests.8-27-2000: Bush officials said they want to consider all the possible formats; Gore aides say their rival is afraid to meet them head on. There is a history in the Bush family of reluctance to debate: former President George Bush took part in debates in 1988 and 1992, but only after protracted negotiations with the debate commission. In a town meeting-style debate with Mr. Clinton in 1992, Mr. Bush seemed so bored that the camera caught him glancing at his watch.8-27-2000: Bush aides also indicate that the governor plans to attack Mr. Gore over the 1996 Democratic fund-raising scandals. That issue came into the news last week when Attorney General Janet Reno decided not to seek appointment of a special prosecutor to investigate Mr. Gore's denials that he had been aware of fund-raising irregularities in that campaign. Ms. Reno's repeated refusal to bring in an independent prosecutor on the fund-raising issue has amounted to a disgraceful dereliction of duty. But as this page said two months ago, installing a special prosecutor at the height of the campaign would disrupt the electoral process. Since Mr. Gore has released all his deposition statements on this matter, voters can decide how to judge him, and Mr. Bush is fully entitled to raise this issue throughout the fall.8-11-2000: Bush and McCain Out West  Gov. George W. Bush and Senator John McCain, who battled bitterly during the primary season, joined forces on the campaign trail.8-29-2000: Gore Names Drug Companies  Vice President Al Gore escalated his attacks on the pharmaceutical industry, calling for greater competition and singling out Schering-Plough, which makes the allergy medication Claritin, and American Home Products, the parent of Wyeth-Ayerst Laboratories, which makes Lodine, an arthritis medicine.8-29-2000: Bush Assails Gore on Schools  Gov. George W. Bush said the Clinton administration had complacently presided over ''a national tragedy'' of public school decline. He also said would unveil a proposal next week to have the government subsidize prescription drug purchases by the low-income elderly.8-29-2000: Bush Balks on Debate Plans  The Bush campaign has raised objections over format, one site and network coverage of three presidential debates proposed by an independent commission that has set up such debates since 1988.8-29-2000: Bush campaign officials were particularly worried that Mr. Buchanan would use such a forum to hammer away at the governor.8-28-2000: Gore Challenges Bush On Health Plan Details  Vice President Al Gore called for an intelligent discussion of health care policy as part of the presidential campaign, and suggested that Gov. George W. Bush's proposals, particularly for a prescription drug benefit for the elderly, have yet to meet a ''minimal standard of substance for serious debate.'' Dick Cheney, Mr. Bush's running mate, said Mr. Bush was still working on a plan for financing a prescription drug benefit.8-17-2000: Gore glanced toward Tipper. Arms folded, she almost imperceptibly shook her head. I thought: Sensible woman.8-10-2000: Gore's choice of the studious and inspiring Lieberman, like Bush's choice of the serious and solid Cheney, reflects well on both presidential candidates. And kangaroo tickets can surprise; both strong hindquarters of 1920 went all the way.8-19-2000: Bush Says Gore Uses A Divisive Strategy  Gov. George W. Bush, campaigning in Tennessee, Vice President Al Gore's home state, said Mr. Gore's convention speech sought to sow division and foment class warfare.8-26-2000: Gore, on the other hand, has specific, targeted tax cuts, which basically say to people, ''If you act the way government wants you to act, you will get to keep some of your money.'' I don't think that's economic policy; it's a social-engineering concept.8-21-2000: Gore's fake apology -- ''sometimes people say I'm too serious, that I talk too much substance and policy'' --  reminded me of Nixon's ''some of my advisers have suggested I take the easy way.'' (As a White House speechwriter, I often advised ''take the easy way!'' so I could submit a draft in which Nixon could say he rejected that counsel.)8-7-2000: Gore Aides Laud Daley For Reviving Campaign  Six weeks after taking charge of Vice President Al Gore's presidential campaign, William M. Daley seems to have revived the once flagging morale of the Democratic campaign. Mr. Daley has limited infighting and imposed discipline on the campaign's strategy and message. Mr. Gore's aides say they feel more optimism than at any point since the vice president swept the primaries.8-7-2000: Gore has put out word that he is composing his own acceptance. Welcome to the world of speechwriting, Al; the nonpartisan blades of exegesis go snicker-snack.8-9-2000: Gore and Lieberman Make Tolerance the Centerpiece  Vice President Al Gore formally introduced Senator Joseph I. Lieberman of Connecticut as his Democratic running mate, portraying the selection of Mr. Lieberman, an Orthodox Jew, as a measure of his devotion to tolerance and his willingness to break barriers.8-9-2000: Gore officials today distributed quotations and writings by Mr. Lieberman, including an unpublished article written in June, suggesting that he had moved away from his support for the partial privatization of Social Security because it posed unacceptable risks for retirees.8-30-2000: Gore Focuses on Health Care  Vice President Al Gore, campaigning in New Mexico, emphasized his plan for providing health care coverage for the country's 11 million uninsured children.8-8-2000: Gore officials today distributed quotations and writings by Mr. Lieberman, including an unpublished article written in June, suggesting that he had moved away from his support for the partial privatization of Social Security because it posed unacceptable risks for retirees.8-8-2000: Gore aides said Mr. Lieberman brought a sense of moral rectitude to the ticket as well as a seriousness of purpose, qualities that Mr. Gore was intent on seeking after Gov. George W. Bush, his Republican rival, chose Dick Cheney, the former secretary of defense, as his running mate.8-8-2000: Gore advisers said the decision, and its timing, a week before the opening of the Democratic convention in Los Angeles, also was grounded in Mr. Gore's recognition that he needed to do something to shake up the race. The latest polls show Mr. Gore trailing Mr. Bush by as much as 17 percentage points.8-8-2000: Gore Gridlock In the Hamptons8-8-2000: Gore Chooses Lieberman; First Jew on Major Ticket  Vice President Al Gore asked Senator Joseph I. Lieberman of Connecticut to be his running mate, putting a Jewish candidate on a major party's national ticket for the first time and choosing the first prominent Democrat to chastise President Clinton for his affair with Monica Lewinsky. The formal announcement is today.8-6-2000: Bushmobile tours ($16) depart from Anna Bay; (61) 500-55 00 66.8-6-2000: Bush, it turned out, was in town to make peace with John McCain after their bitter primary campaign. The governor and the manager hit the weights, just as they used to in the Rangers' clubhouse before the players would come in. They had lunch, Bush seemingly more interested in the Mets than in McCain.8-24-2000: Gore treats the question of pardon as mooted by Clinton's dismissal of the idea. And too many have bought the notion that a pardon must be sought or ''accepted.''8-23-2000: Bush thinks a St. Alban's boy like me can't win on class warfare. He can't even pronounce it! He calls it ''class warfore.'' I can't believe I ever trailed a free-trader who can't even spit out ''tariffs and barriers.'' For awhile he was saying ''terriers and bariffs.'' The other night in Des Moines he abbreviated it to merely ''terrors.''8-23-2000: Bush Says Data Support His Plan for Tax Cuts  Gov. George W. Bush aggressively defended his sweeping tax cut proposal, saying it was both responsible and easily affordable in light of federal surplus projections, and he produced an assortment of figures to show that the plan would not require cuts in government spending.8-12-2000: Bush Challenges Gore  Gov. George W. Bush called on Vice President Al Gore to emphatically state his disapproval of President Clinton's sexual conduct in office and to send a clear message that he would maintain a high level of integrity if elected president.8-12-2000: Bush Challenges Gore  Gov. George W. Bush called on Vice President Al Gore to emphatically state his disapproval of President Clinton's sexual conduct in office and to send a clear message that he would maintain a high level of integrity if elected president.8-12-2000: Gore advisers have been frustrated over the months with some of Mr. Clinton's moves that were intended to be helpful but often upstaged Mr. Gore. But they said today that Mr. Clinton's most recent comments could help the vice president -- because they expected the light to shine brightly on Mr. Clinton at this point anyway.8-12-2000: Gore advisers acknowledge that this is an important week for the Clinton/Gore relationship. And they acknowledge that Mr. Gore's selection of a running mate, Senator Joseph I. Lieberman, who was the first Democratic senator to openly chastise Mr. Clinton for his behavior, was part of the larger process of trying to inoculate himself against Mr. Clinton's behavior.8-13-2000: Gore Preparing to Shift Focus to His Own Agenda  Vice President Al Gore says that in his speech to the Democratic National Convention he will embrace President Clinton for his success in presiding over the economy but leave no doubt that ''I'm running on my own agenda, on my own voice and through my own experiences.8-14-2000: Bush Defends Cheney's Deal  Gov. George W. Bush defended the generous retirement deal that Dick Cheney received from his former employer. But Democrats questioned the message it sent to working people, especially since Republicans have resisted increasing the minimum wage.8-14-2000: Gore-Lieberman is not a charismatic ticket. They either win on substance or not at all. But it's awfully hard to get your message heard amid the din of Clinton narcissism, dumb distractions and demonstrations in the street.8-22-2000: Gore Surges in Several Polls  Six public opinion polls conducted for news organizations since the Democratic convention last week showed Vice President Al Gore leading Gov. George W. Bush, though in two cases by only one percentage point.8-22-2000: Bush's Plan for Military  Gov. George W. Bush attacked Clinton administration military policies, saying the armed forces had fallen into disrepair.8-22-2000: Gore advisers said they were not worried that the phrase sent a subliminal message, as Mr. Bush has charged, that ''working families'' was code for class warfare. They said that this tack by the Bush campaign could help Mr. Gore because it steered the conversation away from whether Mr. Bush was more likable than Mr. Gore.8-25-2000: Bush campaign officials and outside advisers said the campaign had every intention to run commercials that could be defined as negative. But they insisted that they had not settled on when -- and that the timing and exact content were still under discussion.8-25-2000: Bush Campaign Split on Tactics  The cancellation of a Republican Party television ad attacking Al Gore's trustworthiness has exposed tensions within the Bush campaign over whether to go negative against the vice president now.6-3-2000: Gore on Absent Fathers  Vice President Al Gore called for measures to encourage absent fathers, whom he called ''the No. 1 cause of child poverty in America,'' to pay child support. He also urged government policies that would ''lift up the institution of marriage.''6-4-2000: Gore Ally as Target  The new president of the Association of Trial Lawyers of America has given Al Gore a fund-raising advantage and given the Republicans a ready campaign target.6-4-2000: Gore Ally as Target  The new president of the Association of Trial Lawyers of America has given Al Gore a fund-raising advantage and given the Republicans a ready campaign target.6-5-2000: Gore Agrees to Rental Repairs  Tenants of a house owned by Vice President Al Gore say their repeated complaints about overflowing toilets and backed up sinks finally a drew a response when Mr. Gore called on Saturday to promise repairs. His response came after the tenants contacted a local television station.6-2-2000: Bush's Environment Plan  Gov. George W. Bush proposed using federal resources and incentives to coax state governments and private citizens into greater conservation efforts, rather than what he said was the Clinton-Gore administration's more forceful approach.6-2-2000: Gore Pledge on Fighting Cancer  Vice President Al Gore said he would double federal spending on cancer research and make new cancer treatments and tests available to all Americans who needed them.6-2-2000: Bush Backs Execution Delay  For the first time in his five years in office, Gov. George W. Bush of Texas agreed to a 30-day reprieve for a death-row inmate, citing concerns that adequate tests on DNA evidence had not been performed.6-2-2000: Bush Backs Execution Delay  For the first time in his five years in office, Gov. George W. Bush of Texas agreed to a 30-day reprieve for a death-row inmate, citing concerns that adequate tests on DNA evidence had not been performed.6-18-2000: Bush Criticizes Security Lapses  Gov. George W. Bush crisscrossed Florida and criticized security lapses at the Los Alamos National Laboratory, saying ''America's nuclear security should not be a matter of lost and found.''6-27-2000: Bush Would Split I.N.S.  Gov. George W. Bush proposed the splitting of the Immigration and Naturalization Service into two separate agencies, one to deal with law enforcement and the other to provide services to immigrants. In a separate speech at a C.O.R.E. gathering in Manhattan, he called for financing mentoring programs for children whose parents are in prison.6-29-2000: Gore Investigation6-16-2000: Gore Replaces Chairman Of Presidential Campaign  Vice President Al Gore said Commerce Secretary William M. Daley, regarded as a shrewd operative in Democratic politics, would replace Mr. Gore's campaign chairman, Tony Coelho, who is hospitalized with an inflamed colon. Mr. Daley, a scion of the Chicago political family, will leave the cabinet on July 15. Though Mr. Coelho's departure was attributed to the advice of his doctors, many Democrats said the move was inevitable, given the way that Mr. Gore's campaign had been struggling.6-16-2000: Bush Plan for the Disabled  Gov. George W. Bush proposed an additional $880 million in federal spending and tax incentives over five years to help disabled Americans with work, public access and new technology.6-16-2000: Gore aides said the chief difference between their proposals was that the vice president's tax cuts would be limited primarily to families with children and aging parents. Mr. Bush's income tax cut of $1.3 trillion over 10 years would apply to everybody across the board.6-17-2000: Gore Reaches Out to Labor  Vice President Al Gore tried to tamp down unrest among labor leaders over his appointment of Commerce Secretary William M. Daley, a chief labor nemesis in the fight over the China trade bill, as chairman of his presidential campaign.6-10-2000: Gore Faulted on Bureaucracy  Gov. George W. Bush assailed Vice President Al Gore's signature effort to streamline government, saying the Clinton administration had not reinvented the bureaucracy but ''simply reshuffled it.''6-19-2000: Gore advisers, in interviews today, said that the Gore plan is a hedge against what they see as the risky alternative that Mr. Bush is proposing. They said financial institutions would be limited to offering investment options based on broad-based mutual funds for equities, bonds and government securities.6-26-2000: Gore to Propose Incentives For Clean-Energy Products  Vice President Al Gore will propose economic incentives to encourage cleaner technologies intended to reduce the nation's dependency on foreign oil. Mr. Gore's aides said he would call for billions of dollars in tax breaks and other federal subsidies to encourage consumers to buy clean-energy products, like solar houses, and to encourage companies to develop sources of energy that do not burn oil.6-26-2000: Bush's plan calls for taking one-sixth of the present payroll tax and allowing workers to invest it in mutual funds in individual accounts. The intent is to get a return on that investment that is higher than the present rate; that equity growth would supplement the Social Security benefit decades from now.6-26-2000: Gore found he could not get away with labeling that ''a risky scheme'' because more than half of Americans are now stock market investors and know that in the long run, broad indexes do better than risk-free bonds.6-21-2000: Gore Creek babbles along noisily, just beyond soaring pine trees that seem to reach halfway up the mountains in the distance.6-21-2000: Gore Creek babbles along noisily, just beyond soaring pine trees that seem to reach halfway up the mountains in the distance.6-21-2000: Gore Retirement Savings Plan  Vice President Al Gore offered his plan for government-subsidized savings accounts, saying they would help families build wealth for retirement and other uses without putting guaranteed Social Security benefits at risk in the stock market.6-21-2000: Bush Plan for Math and Science  Gov. George W. Bush proposed spending an additional $2.3 billion over five years in federal funds to improve math and science education in public schools.6-9-2000: Gore to Focus on Medicare  Vice President Al Gore said he would deliver a speech in New York City next week on preserving Medicare, as his campaign began promoting a theme of guiding the nation during an era of budget surpluses.6-9-2000: Bush Proposal on Budgets  Gov. George W. Bush proposed an overhaul of the federal budget process to force earlier negotiations and avoid the annual standoffs between Congress and the president over tax policy and spending.6-8-2000: Gore in California  Vice President Al Gore began a three-day West Coast campaign swing, making a fund-raising stop at a lunch with Native Americans.6-1-2000: Bush Weighs First Reprieve To Allow DNA Testing  Gov. George W. Bush of Texas said he was considering a temporary grant of clemency for a man scheduled to be executed today so that DNA evidence could be tested. It would be the first such stay he issued. The inmate, Ricky McGinn, was convicted of raping and murdering his 12-year-old stepdaughter.6-1-2000: Gore Mental Health Plan  Vice President Al Gore called for legislation requiring health insurers to provide children with mental health benefits comparable to coverage for physical ailments. Mr. Gore, whose wife, Tipper, battled depression after their son was injured in a car accident in 1989, also promised to make mental health care a priority in his administration.6-1-2000: Bush aides said today that they did recognize that this case was one of the more attention-getting death penalty cases, but they insisted that such factors have no bearing on how Mr. Bush acts or on what he says. Yet the case also affords Mr. Bush a chance to speak in a moderate voice on the death penalty without seeming to pander, because Mr. McGinn's case involves some understandable questions of evidence that have drawn national attention.6-6-2000: Gore at New York Fund-Raiser  Vice President Al Gore helped raise $3.7 million for the Democratic Congressional Campaign Committee at a Manhattan event. Earlier, he proposed putting nearly all federal government services online.6-24-2000: Gore Says Aides Failed To Explain Fund-Raiser  In a caustic exchange with a senior Justice Department prosecutor two months ago, Vice President Al Gore denied being told by aides that a 1996 luncheon at a Buddhist temple was a fund-raising event, according to a transcript of the interview that Mr. Gore's lawyers made public.6-24-2000: Bush Seeks to Change Subject  Gov. George W. Bush sought to shift attention away from the execution of Gary Graham in Texas on Thursday night and toward Vice President Al Gore's views and record on a range of issues, especially fossil fuels and gasoline prices.6-23-2000: Gore advisers said they had moved aggressively behind the scenes to try to keep Mr. Hoffa from endorsing Mr. Nader, to the point where they had directed projects through federal agencies that would use Teamsters.6-15-2000: Gore warmed to the subject: ''I think that people ought to have a right to expect that will remain private unless they affirmatively give up that right for whatever reason. And I don't think the current law goes far enough in protecting them.  Does that answer your question?''6-15-2000: Gore's stand on the right to privacy is forceful. Next is for one of us to pin down George W. Bush.6-14-2000: Gore Cites Clinton Record In a Call for New Spending  Vice President Al Gore, invoking the economic record of President Clinton, called for a new retirement program to supplement Social Security, elimination of the nation's debt in 12 years, modest tax cuts and systematic spending increases for education, health care and the environment. His speech in Manhattan was the first in a series elaborating on his message of ''prosperity and progress.''6-22-2000: Gore Effort Casts Bush As Beholden to Big Oil  The Gore campaign has begun an effort to paint Gov. George W. Bush, a onetime oil company executive, as a tool of oil interests that are relentlessly gouging consumers. The campaign is worried that voters will blame the Clinton administration -- and Vice President Al Gore -- for the recent surge in gasoline prices.6-22-2000: Gore Effort Casts Bush As Beholden to Big Oil  The Gore campaign has begun an effort to paint Gov. George W. Bush, a onetime oil company executive, as a tool of oil interests that are relentlessly gouging consumers. The campaign is worried that voters will blame the Clinton administration -- and Vice President Al Gore -- for the recent surge in gasoline prices.6-22-2000: Gore officials see the emergence of this issue as an opportunity to link Mr. Bush directly in the public mind with the oil companies and portray Mr. Gore as on the side of working families. This has been a longtime goal of the Gore campaign, but it has not succeeded so far.5-3-2000: Gore Anticrime Proposal  Vice President Al Gore called for a broad array of anticrime measures, among them mandatory drug testing of all prisoners and parolees. His proposal would have the government spend $500 million a year to help states test, treat and counsel prisoners and parolees for drug use.
5-3-2000: Bush Aides Fight Back  Aides to Gov. George W. Bush disputed accusations by Vice President Al Gore that Mr. Bush's fiscal proposals were risky. They said economic growth in the last six months meant that there would be enough money to easily accommodate the governor's spending and tax cut proposals.
5-4-2000: Gore finds its justification only in what it adds to game play, and when the novelty of blood-spouting necks wore off, I found myself wishing this advanced damage model had served as inspiration for other elements of the game. The creators seem so taken with the depictions of violence that they have neglected the fear and dread that the carnage should inspire in its victims and perpetrators.
5-4-2000: Gore and Bush Trade Barbs Over Policy and Style  Vice President Al Gore accused Gov. George W. Bush of devising a ''secret plan'' that could bankrupt the Social Security system. Hours later, Mr. Bush questioned the vice president's honesty and predicted that Mr. Gore's attacks would backfire.
5-5-2000: Gore aides said Mr. Gore might have inadvertently become a member through a magazine subscription or some other organization.
5-18-2000: Gore's Warning to Retirees  Vice President Al Gore told a convention of older people that Gov. George W. Bush's plan to let workers invest some of their Social Security taxes could jeopardize retirement benefits of current recipients.
5-27-2000: Gore's New Campaign Strategy  Vice President Al Gore is to begin a new tack today that will blend personal and biographical details with policy matters in an effort to reach voters on a human level.
5-27-2000: Bush Backs Vatican U.N. Status  Gov. George W. Bush took the side of the Vatican in a controversy over its status at the United Nations. The dispute stems largely from Vatican stands on issues involving family planning and abortion.
5-27-2000: Gore's New Campaign Strategy  Vice President Al Gore is to begin a new tack today that will blend personal and biographical details with policy matters in an effort to reach voters on a human level.
5-27-2000: Bush Backs Vatican U.N. Status  Gov. George W. Bush took the side of the Vatican in a controversy over its status at the United Nations. The dispute stems largely from Vatican stands on issues involving family planning and abortion.
5-16-2000: Bush Stakes Out Early Lead  Gov. George W. Bush has emerged at this early stage as the preferred candidate across the demographic spectrum, a New York Times/CBS News Poll found, with Americans preferring him personally to Vice President Al Gore, though Mr. Gore's issue positions are more appealing.
5-28-2000: Gore pollster Harrison Hickman went to Capitol Hill the other day to tell Democrats there was some good news: the campaign had conducted a focus group to ask women who would make a better date -- Al Gore or George W. Bush -- and Mr. Gore won.
5-28-2000: Gore advisers have believed that the vice president's expertise in international affairs, and particularly arms control, would give him an edge in November.
5-28-2000: Gore Faults Bush Plan On Arms Cuts and Defense  Vice President Al Gore, speaking at the United States Military Academy, criticized Gov. George W. Bush's support for a national missile defense system along with a possible one-sided reduction in American nuclear warheads.
5-17-2000: Bush Opposes Kosovo Deadline  Gov. George W. Bush criticized a bill backed by fellow Republicans in the Senate that would set a deadline for withdrawing American ground troops from Kosovo.
5-17-2000: Bush gets all the breaks. First he gets McCain to meet with him. Now he's planning a powwow with Colin Powell.
5-19-2000: Bush may well be able to gamble his wealth on his new Social Security plan, but there are millions of Americans who will need every penny to make ends meet.
5-9-2000: Gore Pushes China Trade Bill  Vice President Al Gore spoke more forcefully that he customarily has for permanent normalized trade relations for China, which Congress is to vote on this month. Mr. Gore has been tepid in backing the agreement, largely because organized labor, which backs him, opposes it.
5-31-2000: Gore Expands Clinton Plan For Preserving Forests  Vice President Al Gore pledged to put 43 million acres of undeveloped national forests off limits to logging as well as road-building. And he strongly suggested that he would extend the same protections to the Tongass, where conservation efforts have been opposed by Alaska's influential Congressional delegation.
5-1-2000: Bush to Press Case For Social Security Change  Gov. George W. Bush intends to begin pressing his case for the establishment of individual investment accounts within Social Security, a change that would be the most far-reaching to the program since it was established in the Depression.
5-1-2000: Gore Attacks Bush  Vice President Al Gore, in a major foreign policy speech in Boston, attacked Gov. George W. Bush in a classic incumbent strategy, one made especially classic by Governor Bush's father, then the vice president, against another sitting governor in 1988.
5-1-2000: Bush Camp Fires Back  The top foreign policy adviser of Gov. George W. Bush, in response to the Gore speech, said that Vice President Al Gore had misrepresented Mr. Bush's views on how to deal with Russia and China and had taken ''a series of positions that are at complete odds with how he has acted for the past seven years.''
5-6-2000: Gore's Proposals on Teachers  Vice President Al Gore promised to spend billions to recruit new teachers and increase teachers' salaries, but only if the states and teachers' unions agreed that all new teachers meet rigorous national standards and only if hiring decisions are based on expertise, not seniority alone.
5-24-2000: Bush Backs Arms Cuts And Antimissile System  Gov. George W. Bush, flanked by prominent figures from four Republican administrations, called for a ''new approach to nuclear security,'' one that includes possible unilateral reductions in American nuclear weapons combined with a robust antimissile defense system. Mr. Bush said he wanted to reduce the size of America's nuclear arsenal to the ''lowest possible number consistent with our national security'' and below the levels called for under the START II treaty with Russia.
5-15-2000: Gore Camp Seeks Focus  Vice President Al Gore's campaign is struggling to reorient itself toward the general election and many of Mr. Gore's closest advisers concede that Gov. George W. Bush of Texas has outmaneuvered them in appealing to moderate voters.
5-15-2000: Gore Jokes Aren't Gore's  The Jewish jokes that Vice President Al Gore used last week turn out to have come from a Web site, which was not credited as the source.
5-15-2000: Gore strategists have been concerned for at least a year about polls showing that women preferred Mr. Bush, and Mr. Gore's campaign appearances have emphasized his longstanding women-friendly agenda.
5-13-2000: Bush to Offer Trigger Locks  Gov. George W. Bush said he would spend $1 million a year to provide free trigger locks for handgun owners in Texas and, if elected president, would push for a national initiative, at a cost of $65 million a year.
5-14-2000: Bush has often said he loves Rove's loyalty, and there is the fact that Rove sold his business to devote all his energies to him. But how the candidate really feels about his chief handler is difficult to say; he doesn't like to see too many articles about the help and initially didn't want to be quoted in this one about Rove. ''We handed him the phone and he refused -- he said he just wasn't going to do it,'' a Bush aide explained apologetically. ''He doesn't mind you doing staff stories,'' this aide added, though no one had suggested that he did. ''But he doesn't always weigh in.''
5-22-2000: Gore Ahead in Fund-Raising  Gov. George W. Bush of Texas raised three times more money than Vice President Al Gore last month, but Mr. Gore made up the difference with taxpayer funds and continued to have more money in the bank than his Republican opponent.
5-25-2000: Bush's answer: First, trot out the heavy hitters who helped win the cold war. He lined up Nixon-Ford's  Henry Kissinger and Don Rumsfeld, Reagan's George Shultz, his father's Colin Powell and Brent Scowcroft. (No James Baker; forgot his phone number.) One by one, these mainly hard-line heroes endorsed the candidate's call for a limited antimissile system. Kissinger, who wrote the ABM treaty, asserted that it belonged to a long-gone bipolar world.
5-25-2000: Bush also made plain what Clintonites know but won't admit: ''This administration is not fully devoted to the development of an antiballistic missile system that will work.''
5-25-2000: Gore advisers keep saying that the vice president is ''right on the issues'' and that his positions, from tolerance on social matters like abortion to paying down the national debt, are more in tune with those of a majority of Americans. Nonetheless, political analysts say Mr. Gore seems to have trouble articulating that message.
5-25-2000: Gore on Social Security  Vice President Al Gore, explaining a shift in his position, said the stock market was an attractive place for Americans to invest over the long run but not for seeking a solution to Social Security's problems.
10-3-2000: Gore supporters disagreed. Silicon Valley's boom, they said, relied heavily on government investment, policies and on federal research grants that helped many of today's best-known corporate names.
10-4-2000: Bush and Gore Face Off In First Campaign Debate  Vice President Al Gore and Gov. George W. Bush met in Boston for their first presidential debate, arguing over issues that included taxes, health care and foreign policy.
10-5-2000: Bush aides, citing Congress's Joint Committees on Taxation, argue that the estate tax repeal would help an array of taxpayers, like those who inherit small family businesses, and does not just benefit the wealthiest.
10-5-2000: Gore again put on display his compulsion to exaggerate. Republicans call it ''the flaming whopper'': after Bush complimented the Federal Emergency Management Agency for its response to fires raging in Texas in 1998, Gore blurted, ''I accompanied [FEMA Director] James Lee Witt down to Texas when those fires broke out.'' Not true; Gore went without Witt, said a few words about the fires at the Houston airport, and continued on to a trial lawyer's fund-raiser, one of those events he likes to call ''donor-related community outreach.''
10-5-2000: Bush missed a chance to counterpunch when Gore, with his lifelong pipeline to Occidental Petroleum, went into his populist riff blaming ''the big oil companies'' for oil prices. Bush failed to nail Gore for his election-time flip-flop on dipping into the Strategic Petroleum Reserve.
10-5-2000: Gore programmed himself not to appear programmed, but the relentless robot showed through. Not thrice but 10 times on this Rialto did he repeat ''the wealthiest 1 percent,'' his rallying cry of class warfare. Bush's riposte was to point out that his across-the-board tax cuts would benefit the lower middle class more than Gore's more modest tax plan, but that appeal to the already-decideds failed to register.
10-5-2000: Gore was undeniably a commanding presence, interrupting, demanding more time, reciting a series of hot-button points, to the brink of bullying both opponent and moderator (though Jim Lehrer kept equal-time discipline). That impulse to domineer probably helped the vice president with men, hurt him with women.
10-5-2000: Bush supporters emphasize the middle-class beneficiaries of the tax cut. They also argue that since the wealthiest pay most of the taxes, it is not unjust for them to get most of the benefit. But according to the Treasury Department, the wealthiest 1 percent of taxpayers account for 14.8 percent of total income and 20.1 percent of tax revenues. To give them 42.6 percent of a $1.3 trillion tax cut over 10 years makes no sense -- unless the goal is to comfort the already comfortable. To oppose that idea is not just populism. It is common sense.
10-5-2000: Gore aides accused Mr. Bush of making several misstatements in the debate while admitting that Mr. Gore had made some slips himself.
10-2-2000: Bush Returns to Tax Cut Plan  After months of burnishing his image as a new Republican with proposals for modest social programs, Gov. George W. Bush has gone into the final sprint of the presidential race by returning his ambitious across-the-board tax cut plan to the center of his campaign.
10-2-2000: Gore's Debate Reputation  Vice President Al Gore heads into tomorrow's presidential debate with a reputation as one of the most artful, combative and practiced political debaters in modern history. But most of his practice has come at the expense of fellow Democrats.
10-2-2000: Bush and Hague would have no such conflicts in their world views. Hague envisions an expansion of the North American Free Trade Agreement to the European Union, presumably with Britain as the fulcrum. That suits the U.S. more than the goal of a ''United States of Europe,'' dominated by Germany and France, that Clinton-Gore rhetoric tended to encourage.
10-20-2000: Gore aides, however, see the distance as a must. ''He said at the convention, 'I am my own man, vote for me.' That's real,'' said Mark Fabiani, the deputy campaign manager. ''It's not some kind of facade where behind it he's seeking Clinton's counsel every day.''
10-20-2000: Bush Fires Back at Ads  Gov. George W. Bush, striking back at Democratic commercials attacking his Social Security plan, said Vice President Al Gore was pitting ''grandparents against grandchildren'' for political gain and accused him of not facing up to Social Security's coming fiscal problems.
10-27-2000: Bush Raises Character Issue  Gov. George W. Bush, campaigning in western Pennsylvania, questioned the integrity, courage and moral character of Vice President Al Gore and called the presidential race a matter of values.
10-27-2000: Gore Woos Progressives  Before more than 30,000 people in Madison, Wis., Ralph Nader territory, Al Gore promoted his own ''progressive values.''
10-27-2000: Gore Woos Progressives  Before more than 30,000 people in Madison, Wis., Ralph Nader territory, Al Gore promoted his own ''progressive values.''
10-11-2000: Gore campaign officials have said that the toughest remarks will come from surrogates, allowing the candidates themselves to refrain from the kind of slashing attacks that can sully the attacker as well as the target.
10-11-2000: Bush campaign officials said the advertisements were part of a ''troubling pattern'' of distortion by Vice President Al Gore. With respect to the environment, the officials said, Governor Bush has strengthened enforcement of the Clean Air Act and helped reduce industrial emissions by 11 percent since 1994.
10-11-2000: Bush campaign workers in Florida have mailed pamphlets to older Floridians that accuse Mr. Gore of planning to force elderly people into a ''government-run drug H.M.O.''
10-11-2000: Gore aides said they hoped that just as Mr. Bush had benefited from low expectations last week, Mr. Gore's shortcomings in the first debate may lower the bar for him on the remaining two. They maintained that it would be easier for Mr. Gore to correct his problems, which primarily concern personality, than for Mr. Bush to demonstrate a presidential command of the issues.
10-28-2000: Bush Picking Words Carefully  Gov. George W. Bush continued a barnstorming tour through Pennsylvania, Ohio and Michigan, often sounding like a Democrat as he conveyed conservative ideas without using conservative buzzwords that might turn off the centrist Democrats and independent voters he needs to win.
10-17-2000: Gore advisers said that he would return to themes he emphasized in the first debate, including the role of the Clinton administration in the current economic expansion.
10-17-2000: Bush campaign officials insist that the so-called truth squad is often untruthful and is guilty of nonstop negative campaigning.
10-17-2000: Gore supporters, on the other hand, have been especially vociferous in their criticism. Among their complaints is that in the second debate Mr. Lehrer said, incorrectly, that there were Gore commercials depicting Mr. Bush as a bungler. They also noted that in several of the exchanges at the end of the debate Mr. Lehrer allowed Mr. Bush to get the last word.
10-10-2000: Gore campaign and Democratic Party officials say they are not impressed. They have spent no money for commercials in California, and they dismiss the Republican move as a feint to prompt them to start spending.
10-10-2000: Bush campaign officials said that Friday's subpoena sought materials that the campaign manager, Joe Allbaugh, had promised at a Sept. 15 meeting to give to the authorities.
10-19-2000: Gore officials contend that Mr. Bush made two major blunders in the debate. The governor agreed that ''of course'' most of his tax cut would go to the wealthiest 1 percent of Americans, because, as Mr. Bush said, they are the ones who pay the most taxes. And he said that his plan to privatize part of Social Security would cost $1 trillion, money that would come from the Social Security trust fund -- an admission that Mr. Gore said today essentially conceded that Mr. Bush would bankrupt Social Security in 23 years, 14 years sooner than was now projected.
10-19-2000: Bush Rallies His Base  Gov. George W. Bush argued that Vice President Al Gore would endanger the nation's prosperity as a proponent of ''big government,'' and he used his own pledge of tax cutting to rally his party's base in Wisconsin.
10-19-2000: Bush Rallies His Base  Gov. George W. Bush argued that Vice President Al Gore would endanger the nation's prosperity as a proponent of ''big government,'' and he used his own pledge of tax cutting to rally his party's base in Wisconsin.
10-19-2000: Bush dismayed his supporters at first by failing to counterpunch when given clear openings. Gore's claim to have cut the federal payroll by 300,000 cried out for the easy comeback: Almost all of that was in Defense Department reduction after the Reagan-Bush cold-war victory. And Gore's campaign finance piety invited a sharp riposte: He's all for putting the barn door in a lockbox after stealing the fund-raising horse.
10-26-2000: Gore Muddles His Economic Ideas  Since the political conventions, Vice President Al Gore has emphasized the fiscal discipline of his agenda and referred less to programs for working families, confusing his message in the process. Jeff Madrick: Economic Scene. [C2.]
10-26-2000: Bush's White House chief of staff would be Dan Evans and his Counselor, Karen Hughes, with Karl Rove to the R.N.C. and manager Joe Allbaugh set free to earn a living. Gore's chief would be William Daley and his Counselor Frank Hunger, with Fred Meyer to the D.N.C.
10-26-2000: Bush's Mike Gerson or Gore's Eli Attey will draft the Inaugural Address. The other guy will go home and write a book.
10-26-2000: Gore's Russia Deal Called Legal  A 1995 deal signed by Vice President Al Gore and Viktor S. Chernomyrdin, the former Russian prime minister, allowing Russia to sell weapons to Iran without the United States imposing economic sanctions, was legal and did not threaten security, State Department officials told the Senate Foreign Relations Committee.
10-26-2000: Bush Makes Case to Floridians  Gov. George W. Bush made an aggressive appeal to elderly voters in Florida, pitching his Social Security and Medicare plans and accusing Vice President Al Gore of employing scare tactics.
10-26-2000: Gore campaign officials profess confidence.
10-21-2000: Bush Would Reshape NATO And Recast Nations' Roles  If elected president, George W. Bush plans to tell NATO that the United States should no longer participate in peacekeeping in the Balkans, signaling a major new division of labor in the Western alliance, according to his senior national security aide, Condoleezza Rice. Peacekeeping in Bosnia and Kosovo, and possibly elsewhere, would be a European responsibility. The United States would focus on deterring and fighting wars in the Persian Gulf, Asia and other distant trouble spots.
10-7-2000: Bush Finds Validation on Putin
10-7-2000: Bush's Plan to Fight Drugs  Gov. George W. Bush accused the Clinton administration of fighting illicit drugs ''without urgency, without energy and without success'' and proposed $2.7 billion in grants to groups and schools to combat narcotics and provide treatment.
10-9-2000: Gore Plans to Delegate Attacks  Vice President Al Gore's campaign is planning a multimedia offensive this week that assails Gov. George W. Bush over his record in Texas and his occasional slips of the tongue, Gore aides said. The strategy calls for Mr. Gore to delegate attacks so he can remain above the fray.
10-9-2000: Gore aides said the campaign had long planned to focus attention on Mr. Bush's record in the four weeks before the Nov. 7 election. But the timing takes on additional significance because of the continuing closeness of the race after the candidates' first debate last week and because of the Bush campaign's efforts to label Mr. Gore as a ''serial exaggerator.'' Those words were used today by Mr. Bush's chief strategist, Karl Rove, in an interview on CNN.
10-31-2000: Bush Is Pushing Hard To Take California  Gov. George W. Bush campaigned in California instead of more closely contested Midwestern states, portraying Vice President Al Gore as someone who practices the ''politics of division'' and suggesting the Republicans would carry the state, a cornerstone of the last two Democratic Presidential victories.
10-31-2000: Gore campaign officials said the Democratic strategy has been to take aim at Nader supporters by emphasizing what is dear to them. ''We believe that many Nader voters are concerned about freedom of choice, the environment, and don't want to see those issues put at risk by a Bush presidency,'' said a Gore spokesman, Doug Hattaway.
10-30-2000: Gore Campaign Challenges Bush's Ability to Be Leader  Vice President Al Gore's wife and his running mate -- but not Mr. Gore himself -- portrayed Gov. George W. Bush as too inexperienced to be president, an argument the Gore campaign hopes will help derail the Bush candidacy. Mr. Gore cast the presidential election as a chance for people to reject the influence of special interests, saying at a rally in Michigan, ''This country belongs to you, and I want to give it back to you.''
10-30-2000: Gore and Globalization
10-30-2000: Bush and the I.M.F.
10-8-2000: Bush, 47, grins at the praise. ''I'm a camouflage decorator,'' he says, modestly allowing that he has a passion for transforming the disreputable into the deluxe. ''Not everybody wants to blow out the walls and start over from scratch,'' he adds, plainly puzzled by the notion of bulldozer decorating. ''There's nothing wrong with working with what's already there and making it better.''
10-1-2000: Gore's staff tends to steer clear of her, as a surprising number of his aides have remarked in passing over the last year. They see her as high-maintenance and hard to please -- as demanding as he is. The advice given one new hire in his office was this: When she calls, say yes and keep moving. She is not at all uptight in some ways. A former baby sitter who went on vacation with the Gores when their four children were young remembers being embarrassed by her frank references to their apparently robust sex life. ''I had never been around an adult who talked openly like that,'' said the woman, Karen Spears, who was 18 at the time. And the vice president's wife didn't consider it any big deal when she played matchmaker to her two hairdressers: conveniently for her, the guy who cuts her hair in New York and the guy who cuts her hair in Washington are a couple now.
10-6-2000: Gore's Embellishments  Republicans complained about the accuracy of several of Vice President Al Gore's statements in his debate with Gov. George W. Bush, and even some Democrats expressed puzzlement over Mr. Gore's repeated missteps in this regard.
10-15-2000: Gore was reacting to Gore, like the sheriff in ''Blazing Saddles'' who holds a gun to his own head and takes himself hostage. W. seemed almost like a bemused spectator at the vice president's split-personality psychodrama. And since Mr. Gore was afraid to show his smarts and his contempt for W., the pair came across as a couple of regular guys running for student body president.
10-15-2000: Gore campaign officials say they feel enormous pressure because they have less to spend than the Republicans, who are spreading resources in more states. Advisers to Mr. Gore said they would decide after the St. Louis debate whether to give up on some major states -- Ohio and Louisiana are among the possibilities -- and pump resources elsewhere.
10-12-2000: Gore and Bush Meet In 2nd Campaign Debate  Vice President Al Gore and Gov. George W. Bush, seated side-by-side, agreed more than they disagreed in a subdued and generally cordial debate on foreign policy and domestic matters like racial profiling, gun control and same-sex marriage.
10-13-2000: Bush Camp Hails Debate; Gore Hits at Texas Record  The candidates campaigned in swing states. Vice President Al Gore pressed his attack on George W. Bush's record as governor of Texas, and the Bush campaign exulted in what it saw as a pivotal moment in the race -- Wednesday's debate.
10-14-2000: Bush Cautiously Raises Mideast as Campaign Issue  Gov. George W. Bush continued to express support for the Clinton administration's approach to increased violence in the Middle East. But he and his running mate, Dick Cheney, also signaled that they were prepared to make events in the Middle East a part of the campaign debate, finding ways to frame recent events there as an argument for their election and a validation of their positions on oil imports, the Strategic Petroleum Reserve and the strength and use of the military.
10-22-2000: Gore campaign officials clearly believe that Ms. Rice's remarks provide them with an opening in the final weeks of the campaign to paint Mr. Bush as naive and inexperienced in foreign affairs and to argue that his policies would harm American interests abroad.
10-22-2000: Gore Attacks Bush on Balkans  Mr. Gore and Secretary of State Madeleine K. Albright denounced a proposal by Gov. George W. Bush to withdraw United States ground forces from their peacekeeping mission in the Balkans.
10-22-2000: Gore officials said that they would double their spending on television advertisements to $4 million next week, and match the Republicans in television spending for the rest of the campaign. They said their commercials would amplify the idea that Mr. Bush was not ''up to the job'' of being president.
10-25-2000: Bush Pledge Alarms Europeans  European diplomats, officials and analysts expressed disfavor for a promise by George W. Bush that if elected president he will negotiate removal of American troops from Balkan peacekeeping duties and leave such work to Europeans.
10-25-2000: Bush Pledge Alarms Europeans  European diplomats, officials and analysts expressed disfavor for a promise by George W. Bush that if elected president he will negotiate removal of American troops from Balkan peacekeeping duties and leave such work to Europeans.
7-4-2000: Gore Links Drug Makers And G.O.P. to High Costs  Vice President Al Gore accused drug makers of ''price-gouging'' and ''special interest schemes'' to keep prices high, as he began a weeklong drive on an issue that has emerged as one of the most potent this election season -- the rising cost of prescription drugs. His speech to an elderly crowd in Missouri also sought to link Gov. George W. Bush and Congressional Republicans to the pharmaceutical industry.
7-20-2000: Gore Won't Name Names
7-18-2000: Bush on a Running Mate  Gov. George W. Bush said for the first time that he was closing in on choosing a running mate.
7-18-2000: Gore Closing the Gap  Vice President Al Gore called attention to a new CNN/USA Today poll that showed him trailing Gov. George W. Bush by only two points, 43 percent to 45 percent.
7-27-2000: Bush and Cheney Hit the Campaign Trail  Gov. George W. Bush and his new running mate, Dick Cheney, visited the vice-presidential contender's home state, Wyoming, defending Mr. Cheney's conservative voting record and vowing that the ticket would ''renew America's purpose.''
7-27-2000: Gore Seeks Jackson's Aid  Vice President Al Gore, campaigning in Chicago, urged members of the Rev. Jesse Jackson's organization, the Rainbow/PUSH Coalition, to support him and work to defeat the ''old guard'' represented by the Republican ticket. Mr. Jackson was once a bitter rival of Mr. Gore's, but is now a close ally.
7-11-2000: Gore Challenges Do-Nothing-for-People Congress. Video available via satellite and webcast.
7-11-2000: Bush at N.A.A.C.P. Convention  Gov. George W. Bush, speaking at the N.A.A.C.P.'s annual convention, said that ''the party of Lincoln has not always carried the mantle of Lincoln'' and pledged that ''strong civil rights enforcement will be a cornerstone of my administration.''
7-11-2000: Gore Attacks Congress  Vice President Al Gore took a new tack in his presidential campaign, beginning a series of broadsides against the Republican-controlled Congress and seeking to align Gov. George W. Bush with anti-populist stands. His attacks came in a speech at Central Connecticut State University.
7-11-2000: Bush at N.A.A.C.P. Convention  Gov. George W. Bush, speaking at the N.A.A.C.P.'s annual convention, said that ''the party of Lincoln has not always carried the mantle of Lincoln'' and pledged that ''strong civil rights enforcement will be a cornerstone of my administration.''
7-11-2000: Gore Attacks Congress  Vice President Al Gore took a new tack in his presidential campaign, beginning a series of broadsides against the Republican-controlled Congress and seeking to align Gov. George W. Bush with anti-populist stands. His attacks came in a speech at Central Connecticut State University.
7-17-2000: Gore and Bush Speak On TV News Programs  Vice President Al Gore and Gov. George W. Bush gave voters a chance for the first time to make a side-by-side comparison as the two sat for hourlong interviews on network television.
7-26-2000: Bush Names Cheney As G.O.P. Running Mate  Gov. George W. Bush formally introduced Dick Cheney, a former defense secretary and a longtime family friend, as his choice for vice president, praising Mr. Cheney, 59, as a man of ''great integrity, sound judgment and experience.''
7-26-2000: Bush Names Cheney As G.O.P. Running Mate  Gov. George W. Bush formally introduced Dick Cheney, a former defense secretary and a longtime family friend, as his choice for vice president, praising Mr. Cheney, 59, as a man of ''great integrity, sound judgment and experience.''
7-21-2000: Gore aides conceded that today's event was aimed chiefly at voters beyond Texas, particularly swing voters, women and core Democrats who may find the governor an appealing figure, but who would be offended at what Mr. Gore tried to portray as Mr. Bush's disregard for health care, children and the environment.
7-7-2000: Gore Hits Bush on Medicare; Bradley to Offer His Support  Vice President Al Gore sharply contrasted his Medicare proposals with those of Gov. George W. Bush.
7-9-2000: Bush Terminal in the Sunset Park section of Brooklyn is a 5-million-square-foot complex of buildings that have sat underutilized on the waterfront since the 1960's, when containerized ocean shipping replaced labor-intensive methods of loading and unloading ships.
7-9-2000: Bush Terminal was also called Industry City because it was one of the first industrial parks in the nation. Industry has gone elsewhere, but the current owner, a private partnership named Industry City Associates, and the brokers who represent them are trying to convert it to a technology campus. This includes cutting vertical shafts called risers in the buildings, so that each tenant will have multiple connections to power and telecommunications cables.
7-9-2000: Gore could use that kind of magic. But even were he to dare go for a spine-tingling choice, the problem he faces is that there is a dearth of spine-tingling choices. Republicans eagerly reel off a host of governors and up-and-comers in Congress with compelling biographies, from Gov. Tom Ridge of Pennsylvania and Gov. Frank Keating of Oklahoma to Senator John McCain of Arizona and Senator Chuck Hagel of Nebraska to Representative John Kasich of Ohio to Elizabeth Dole. Ask Democrats their favorites, and there is, almost always, a moment of silence. Then they end up resurrecting the names of people who have been passed over before. One close friend of Gore's, a figure in Democratic politics for decades, is downright unsettled. ''Names come up that may be sound but there are no home runs in the crowd. Who is out there who would lead people to say, 'Al Gore strikes a home run'? For the life of me, I can't imagine who it is.''
7-9-2000: Gore expressed no such qualms when Christopher tracked him down in Rio, where he was attending an environmental conference. There was one proviso: Gore asked for 24 hours to think over whether he wanted to be a finalist. Some Clinton advisers wondered whether Gore -- who long nursed presidential ambitions of his own -- was playing too hard-to-get. Christopher, having seen people make wrongheaded decisions when they were abroad, approved of his prudence.
7-9-2000: Gore, of course, did not change his mind. He allowed his name to be put forth, as did the four others on the list: Senator Bob Graham of Florida, Senator Harris Wofford of Pennsylvania, Representative Lee Hamilton of Indiana and Senator Bob Kerrey of Nebraska. Clinton met secretly with each of these contenders, mostly at the Capital Hilton, a few blocks from the White House. On June 30, Gore was spirited through a back door for what had been planned as an hourlong session, the length allotted for all the finalists. Clinton and Gore started talking at 10 p.m. and were still chatting well past 1 a.m. They got so comfortable that eventually they both stretched out on the floor, their backs against two couches as they faced one another.
7-9-2000: Gore insists that he's not interested in springing a splashy surprise. That may be because he really doesn't think it matters -- or because there are no splashy candidates and he is trying to lower expectations. ''I don't think the drama has more than transitory value,'' he says. ''It needs to feel right.''
7-9-2000: Gore was not ready to talk in any kind of detail about his choices or his way of arriving at them. What he did seem eager to do was convey that he was relaxed about the process. At the conclusion of our interview, Gore had a question for me. ''How old are you?'' he asked. ''Older than 35?''
7-30-2000: Bushido Fencing Center, 118 Broadway, Hillsdale; (201) 666-3550. Group lessons, age 9 and older; also offers yoga exercises for fencers.
7-30-2000: Bush Plans Wide Appeal In His Convention Speech  Gov. George W. Bush said that in his speech to the Republican National Convention he would go out of his way to direct his appeal to the widest possible audience, including Democrats and independents.
7-1-2000: Gore Criticizes Drug Makers  Vice President Al Gore, accusing the pharmaceutical industry of ''corporate chutzpah'' over prices and profits, promised to take on drug makers next week at campaign stops. But a review of his record makes it clear that his views are more nuanced than his language suggests.
7-1-2000: Gore Criticizes Drug Makers  Vice President Al Gore, accusing the pharmaceutical industry of ''corporate chutzpah'' over prices and profits, promised to take on drug makers next week at campaign stops. But a review of his record makes it clear that his views are more nuanced than his language suggests.
7-6-2000: Bush Antiques, at 2109 Magazine Street, has F.F.F. (fine French furniture), but also small interesting pieces -- like the metal chandelier that Ms. Parlange easily reinvented with tinted silver leaf.
7-6-2000: Bush Addresses Hispanic Group  Gov. George W. Bush told members of the National Council of La Raza, one of the nation's largest and most influential Hispanic groups, that he was on a mission to topple any stereotypes that Republicans are insensitive to minority groups and new immigrants. And he sought to demonstrate his own compassion by proposing to spend an additional $100 million in annual federal spending to expedite foreigners' applications to immigrate.
7-23-2000: Bush Seeking Safe Choice  Gov. George W. Bush seems to be steering toward the safe and solid in seeking a vice president, partly because the job is increasingly seen as more than an understudy role.
7-15-2000: Bush-Pataki Ticket Explored  George W. Bush met privately with Gov. George E. Pataki of New York to talk about the vice presidency.
7-15-2000: Bush Gives a Hand to Lazio  George W. Bush offered his support for Representative Rick A. Lazio's Senate bid, belittling Hillary Rodham Clinton with a familiar critique before an audience of Conservative Party donors in Manhattan.
7-12-2000: Gore on Patients' Rights  Vice President Al Gore, speaking at the University of Arkansas for Medical Sciences, prodded Gov. George W. Bush of Texas to get behind the patients' bill of rights before Congress.
7-12-2000: Bush Promotes Adoption  Gov. George W. Bush, speaking in Michigan, said that ''foster care ought to be a bridge to adoption'' and called for measures to promote adoption.
7-12-2000: Gore on Patients' Rights  Vice President Al Gore, speaking at the University of Arkansas for Medical Sciences, prodded Gov. George W. Bush of Texas to get behind the patients' bill of rights before Congress.
7-12-2000: Bush Promotes Adoption  Gov. George W. Bush, speaking in Michigan, said that ''foster care ought to be a bridge to adoption'' and called for measures to promote adoption.
7-13-2000: Gore Courts Black Voters  Al Gore summoned black voters to support his presidential candidacy, citing his long commitment to their cause and deriding Gov. George W. Bush as offering only words.
9-3-2000: Gore called his 1992 manifesto on environmentalism ''Earth in the Balance''; an alternative title for ''The Prince of Tennessee'' might be ''A Life in the Balance.'' The balance is not always comfortable, and the authors depict a character far more complex and conflicted than the man he would succeed in the White House. Where Maraniss's essential biography of Bill Clinton, ''First in His Class,'' was painted in great swaths of color, this is more a work of pointillism, myriad small dots of reportage brought together to form a vivid portrait.
9-3-2000: Gore has spent his entire life on Page 1; he was raised to belong there. When he was 6 his parents were already planting media stories of his precocity, showcasing ''another Gore on the way toward the political pinnacle.'' Perhaps unsurprisingly, given these circumstances, at every critical stage in his life Gore seems to have been aware of an unseen but omnipresent biographer, hovering behind his shoulder, taking notes. ''I was a real little politician,'' he once said, somewhat sadly, of his own childhood. From the earliest years almost every strategic decision, in the authors' phrase, appears to have been underpinned by ''thinking politically on a longer arc.''
9-3-2000: Bush's prose favors philosophical questioning over bloody engagement, and this too is Arcadia's preferred modus operandi. Armed with her degree in war studies (not peace or defense but war, a bald fact that pleases her), Arcadia probes conflict and its ethical dilemmas from a decent distance. She is not a war junkie, not addicted to the glamour of sniper fire, of the shells cascading onto Sarajevo's Holiday Inn. She examines the methodology and morality of intervention in Bosnia, never having been near Srebrenica. She notes the new imbalance in the casualties of war, the massive slaughter of civilians in Rwanda, never having been a spectator (a ''witness,'' as a war correspondent friend insists) to those atrocities.
9-3-2000: Bush probes these matters in only occasionally undigested chunks of information, of questioning. This is a novel, after all, not a treatise. Arcadia is not in its pages merely to wonder about how we avoid or embrace passivity in an age of global, instant information about every available conflict. She is also a sexual being, a troubled being.
9-3-2000: Bush's prose, mostly plain and restrained, lurches into the sensuous when describing sex or cities. She writes a love letter to England, its fields smelling of ''fog and peat,'' and to London with its spreading trees and sudden bursts of pastoral beauty. Later, she will lavish equal love on Toronto, caressing its street names, the sounds of the streetcars, the melting heat of its summers. Her heroine sees London's canals and Toronto's ravines as hidden places of possibility, invisible borderlands where the strange or the deadly may happen out of sight of the mundane world.
9-3-2000: Bush therefore spins connections, crisscrossing her philosophical construct. Set in counterpoint to Arcadia's deconstructions of the practice of modern war are the experiences of actual victims: Amir, who has fled Iran, and a Somali refugee named Basra (recalling the Iraqi city, a name altered in Western consciousness by the gulf war). Their losses, their dislocations, their slipping across borders, their altered identities, their real and pressing requirement for safety all act as a counterbalance to Arcadia's own exile and desires. These people and their needs become a moral testing ground. Through them, she will find an expiation of sorts, though not where she expects.
9-4-2000: Bush Offers Debate Dates And Tries to Turn Tables  Trying to end questions about his willingness to debate and turn the tables on his opponent, Gov. George W. Bush announced a schedule of three hand-picked debates that he wanted to do, only one of which is guaranteed to be broadcast on the three major networks. Mr. Bush pointedly challenged Vice President Al Gore to meet him on these chosen dates and terms. His idea drew an immediate reaction from Mr. Gore, who said he was ''very disappointed.''
9-4-2000: Bush pioneered the whining strategy in the primaries with his orchestrated offense-taking at John McCain for slamming evangelicals who were hinting the former captive was crazy; McCain then retreated into the rictus of a forced smile. But when Bush tried to repeat this don't-touch-Mr.-Nice-Guy tactic against an expected Gore onslaught, he ran into world-class, hand-over-the-heart counter-whining mournfully accusing him of ''changing his tune about changing the tone.''
9-4-2000: Gore aides also said that Mr. Bush was deliberately trying to shrink the audience because unless there was blanket coverage, viewers would likely stray to other programming.
9-2-2000: Bush Defends Attack Ad As Response to Gore Ads  Gov. George W. Bush, interviewed aboard his campaign plane, defended a new ad that challenged the credibility and character of Vice President Al Gore, saying it was a way to counter Gore ads against him. He also signaled that his frequent pledge to ''change the tone'' of politics would not prevent him from raising questions about Mr. Gore's truthfulness and leadership abilities.
9-2-2000: Bush campaign officials have recently indicated that they are not happy with some aspects of the debates organized by the bipartisan commission, which has supervised the presidential debates since 1988. They have said their objections include the plan to broadcast all three debates in prime time, and the holding of the first debate at the University of Massachusetts in Boston because the location is adjacent to the John F. Kennedy Library, an institution commemorating a Democratic president.
9-20-2000: Bush on 'Oprah'  Gov. George W. Bush appeared on Oprah Winfrey's program, whose audience is three-fourths women, sitting for an interview that emphasized biography over policy.
9-18-2000: Bush Makes New Pitch To Attract Middle-Class  Gov. George W. Bush said he was determined to convince middle-income voters that they would fare better under his proposals than under Vice President Al Gore's, and he released a new campaign document, ''Blueprint for the Middle Class,'' outlining his proposals.
9-18-2000: Bush officials have privately said that their biggest fear was that people would begin to question their candidate's weightiness. Now, many Republicans said, with the Olympics in progress, they are particularly worried that Mr. Bush will probably  not have a chance to define himself better until the first of his three debates with Mr. Gore, on Oct. 3.
9-27-2000: Gore Takes Campaign to MTV  Vice President Al Gore participated in an MTV forum in which, among other topics, he explained his support for civil unions between homosexuals, his opposition to the legalization of medical marijuana and his distaste for misogynistic music.
9-27-2000: Bush and the Conservatives  Even as Gov. George W. Bush is playing down his conservative ties, conservative groups are working hard to get him elected.
9-27-2000: Bush and the Conservatives  Even as Gov. George W. Bush is playing down his conservative ties, conservative groups are working hard to get him elected.
9-11-2000: Gore vs. Entertainment Ads  Vice President Al Gore and his Democratic running mate, Senator Joseph I. Lieberman, said that if the entertainment industry does not stop marketing violent films, recordings and video games to children, they would propose legislation or new regulatory authority allowing the federal government to sanction the industry. Mr. Gore said he would give industry officials six months to ''clean up their act.''
9-11-2000: Bush and his running mate should be hammering away at this survival issue. If Dick Cheney were the Republican serving in Clinton's cabinet, and if the President overruled him on the most important policy decision at the Pentagon, would he continue to serve and shut up? Cheney should call on the rebuffed defense secretary to put the public interest first, to step down and speak out.
9-29-2000: Gore aides say the purpose is for these people, all of whom Mr. Gore has met in campaign appearances, to help brief the vice president about the concerns of real Americans.
9-29-2000: Gore Hits Bush Tax Cuts  Vice President Al Gore said ''prosperity itself will be on the ballot'' on Nov. 7 and portrayed Gov. George W. Bush's tax cut proposal as a threat to the country's economic health.
9-29-2000: Bush Hits Gore Spending Plans  Gov. George W. Bush tacitly praised President Clinton's past calls for an end to ''big government'' and said Vice President Al Gore was endangering prosperity by having ''cast his lot with the old Democratic party'' in proposing a new level of federal spending and regulation.
9-17-2000: Bush and Gore Focus On 10 Crucial States  Vice President Al Gore, who has erased Gov. George W. Bush's lead in most national polls, has also edged ahead of him in the battle for electoral votes, according to independent and partisan analysts. But several major states are still tossups.
9-17-2000: Bush Theater, Shepherds Bush Green, London W12; (44-207) 610-4224. (Closed for refurbishment until Oct. 24).
9-10-2000: Bush officials and consultants, and officials at the Republican National Committee, are wrestling with a variety of options, from a commercial that shows Mr. Gore turning into a chameleon to one questioning the validity of his budget plan.
9-19-2000: Bush Courts Middle Class  Gov. George W. Bush opened a six-day, nine-state drive to showcase proposals intended to appeal to middle-income Americans, asserting that his tax cut plan would relieve the pressure on parents who work more than one job.
9-19-2000: Gore on Women's Health Care  Vice President Al Gore promoted his plans for improving women's health care and accepted the Teamsters' endorsement at their convention.
9-26-2000: Gore on Medicare H.M.O.'s  Vice President Al Gore pledged to strengthen sanctions against H.M.O.'s that pull out of the Medicare market and to eliminate Medicare co-payments and deductibles for various preventative tests.
9-26-2000: Bush's Education Complaints  Gov. George W. Bush said the Clinton administration had helped create an ''education recession'' in which minority and low-income students were routinely allowed to fail.
9-21-2000: Gore Chastises Drug Makers  Vice President Al Gore accused pharmaceutical companies of gouging elderly people, citing as examples several people he said were having problems paying for their medicine. He omitted any reference to his mother-in-law's situation, details of which Republicans and some news reports have challenged.
9-7-2000: Gore Says Prosperity Will Fuel Economic Goals  President Al Gore offered his economic vision for the future, a book-length plan that hinged on optimistic fiscal forecasts and offered a mountain of detail. He said the 10 economic goals he outlined were attainable, given the nation's current prosperity, including cutting poverty below 10 percent, raising the level of home ownership and creating 10 million new high-technology jobs.
9-9-2000: Bush Yields on Debates And Will Seek Compromise  Gov. George W. Bush abandoned his effort to impose his own schedule of presidential debates, and his campaign said it was prepared to sit down with aides to Vice President Al Gore to work out an agreement for debating under the auspices of a bipartisan commission.
9-9-2000: Gore's Son's Surgeon Hailed
9-30-2000: Bush Energy Plan Favors More Domestic Exploration  Gov. George W. Bush, saying the Clinton administration has been shortsighted, outlined a broad energy plan that calls for more domestic fuel production, better relations with foreign suppliers and the opening of the Arctic National Wildlife Refuge for drilling, all of which he framed as potential remedies for rising oil and gas prices. He also offered incentives for developing alternative energy sources and clean-burning fuels.
9-30-2000: Gore Sees Danger in Bush Plan  Vice President Al Gore criticized the Bush proposal to open Alaska's protected wilderness to oil drilling, saying it would bring ''decades of environmental damage to reap just a few months of increased oil supply.''
9-8-2000: Bush Scoffs at Grumbling, But Moves to Recast Image  Gov. George W. Bush dismissed criticism from some Republicans over the direction of his campaign, but he also called himself ''the underdog'' and said he would restyle his campaign to put him in more intimate settings with voters. A poll by ABC News and The Washington Post had the race tied, with Mr. Bush and Mr. Gore each attracting 47 percent, while a Gallup poll for CNN and USA Today put Mr. Gore in the lead, 47 percent to 44 percent.
9-8-2000: Bush Scoffs at Grumbling, But Moves to Recast Image  Gov. George W. Bush dismissed criticism from some Republicans over the direction of his campaign, but he also called himself ''the underdog'' and said he would restyle his campaign to put him in more intimate settings with voters. A poll by ABC News and The Washington Post had the race tied, with Mr. Bush and Mr. Gore each attracting 47 percent, while a Gallup poll for CNN and USA Today put Mr. Gore in the lead, 47 percent to 44 percent.
9-1-2000: Bush Ad Mocks Gore Character  Aides to Gov. George W. Bush said they had approved a television advertisement that strikes directly at Vice President Al Gore's character. They said the ad was intended as a ''tongue-in-cheek'' response to critical Democratic ads.
9-1-2000: Goren said the Green Bay Packers at Denver Broncos preseason game provided an excellent example.
9-6-2000: Bush Prescription Plan Is Overhaul of Medicare  Gov. George W. Bush proposed an overhaul of the 35-year-old Medicare program that would encourage recipients to choose subsidized private health insurance plans offering prescription drug coverage and would also pay the full cost of drug coverage for the low-income elderly.
9-6-2000: Gore's Economic Vision  The Gore campaign issued an economic blueprint for the next decade, including a $300 billion rainy day fund, a commitment to eliminate the national debt and goals that included increasing family incomes, reducing poverty and narrowing the gap in wages between men and women.
9-24-2000: Gore campaign officials said tonight that they had temporarily removed a junior staff aide because he had given incorrect information to ABC News, but they said the aide had nothing to do with the transmission of confidential information from the Bush campaign to Gore associates.
9-24-2000: Gore campaign officials said tonight that they had temporarily removed a junior staff aide because he had given incorrect information to ABC News, but they said the aide had nothing to do with the transmission of confidential information from the Bush campaign to Gore associates.
9-23-2000: Gore aides distributed news accounts from last year that they said showed Mr. Bush's running mate, Dick Cheney, then heading an energy-services company, praising OPEC for driving up oil prices.
9-23-2000: Gore associates said he made himself available today to end the increasing number of stories that he was inaccessible. Still, asked if he would hold a news conference once a week, he avoided answering. ''We'll talk about that at the next one,'' he said.
9-15-2000: Gore aides and spokesmen for the entertainment executives emphasized that Mr. Gore and Mr. Lieberman had criticized only the industry's marketing techniques, not the content of its products. Furthermore, said Jennifer Backus, a Democratic National Committee spokeswoman, ''Al Gore and Joe Lieberman aren't afraid to tell their friends that they disagree with them.''
9-15-2000: Bush Accepts 3-Debate Plan  Gov. George W. Bush withdrew objections to a bipartisan panel's debate schedule, agreeing to three 90-minute prime-time encounters with Vice President Al Gore next month on college campuses in Boston, Winston-Salem, N.C., and St. Louis.
9-15-2000: Gore at Musical Fund-Raiser  Vice President Al Gore and Senator Joseph I. Lieberman headlined a musical benefit for the Democratic Party in Manhattan that featured many popular music stars. Republicans said the event undercut recent Democratic efforts to curb entertainment industry marketing practices.
9-13-2000: Bush Asserts Control  Gov. George W. Bush is reducing his informal meetings with reporters in the hope that they will focus more on his scheduled events.
9-13-2000: Gore campaign aides went nuts when they figured out that a Republican ad lacing into the vice president on prescription drugs had one frame that flashed the word ''RATS'' in big white letters, as a Cubist fragment of the word ''bureaucrats.''
9-14-2000: Gore, primed well in advance, expressed profound ''disappointment'' at this Orwellian mass hypnosis. Joe Lieberman bowed his head, presumably in prayer for the Republic in its moment of peril.
9-22-2000: Bush campaign officials say efforts by the governors provide a major asset in helping to offset the widespread political connections Al Gore has built over nearly eight years as vice president, including the Democratic governors who are working for him, like Parris N. Glendening of Maryland and Gray Davis of California.
9-22-2000: Gore Urges Tapping Into Oil Reserve  Vice President Al Gore said that the White House should release a modest amount of oil from government stockpiles to stablize oil prices, a move that Gov. George W. Bush immediately denounced as a political ploy that could endanger national security. [A1.]
9-22-2000: Gore Seeks Oil Release To Stabilize Prices  Vice President Al Gore said the White House should release a modest amount of oil from government stockpiles to stabilize oil prices, a move that Gov. George W. Bush denounced as a political ploy that could endanger national security.
9-25-2000: Bush advisers said that F.B.I. investigators in Austin had visited Mr. McKinnon's offices and had interviewed some of the people who work there as well as many, but not all, of the senior officials in the Bush campaign.
8-3-2000: Bush Family Values
8-4-2000: Bush Accepts Nomination Promising 'Great Goals'  Gov. George W. Bush pledged to ''confront the hard issues -- threats to our national security, threats to our health and retirement security'' that he said the Clinton administration ducked, and he spelled out his agenda. Though much of his text was upbeat, he also jabbed at the President and Vice President Al Gore.
8-5-2000: Gore Returns G.O.P. Fire, Citing Years of Prosperity  Vice President Al Gore, campaigning in Chicago, accused the Republicans of running a showy but insubstantial convention, and he strongly claimed credit for having helped create the nation's roaring economy.
8-5-2000: Bush Seeks to Build Momentum  Gov. George W. Bush and his running mate, Dick Cheney, campaigned by plane, train and automobile in Pennsylvania, Ohio and Michigan, swing states the Democrats carried in the last two presidential elections.
8-2-2000: Bush Pere believes his manners toward his successor have been impeccable, and that he has been discreet out of loyalty to the office.
8-20-2000: Gore officials said they would focus largely on the battleground states of the Midwest and make particular appeals to women who seemed enticed by the Republicans. They also said they would continue to cite Mr. Bush's record in Texas as demonstrating his failure to tackle health care for children, improving the environment, gun control and other issues.
8-20-2000: Bush campaign officials said they were working with state Republican Party organizations to develop programs to identify potential supporters and encourage them to vote. The Gore campaign is making such efforts as well, but is more reliant on unions to help drive turnout.
8-20-2000: Gore campaign officials said they were pleased that during their convention they had made significant inroads in presenting Mr. Gore as more than a vice president but as a nominee with a populist streak who will energetically fight for ''working families'' -- a favorite Gore phrase -- on issues ranging from health care to Social Security.
8-20-2000: Bush campaign advisers and supporters seem almost preoccupied over the possibility that the Democrats will begin broadcasting harsh commercials that try to scare voters away from their candidate -- all in a drive to gain an edge over Bush.
8-18-2000: Gore Defines Himself And Outlines His Goals  Vice President Al Gore made his debut as the Democratic presidential nominee with a vow to work for all Americans, ''especially those who need a voice, those who need a champion, those who need to be lifted up so they are never left behind.''
8-18-2000: Bush Agrees to 3 Debates  Advisers to Gov. George W. Bush said he would participate in three presidential debates, an announcement intended to blunt criticism from the Gore campaign that Mr. Bush was trying to avoid such face-to-face contests.
8-27-2000: Bush officials said they want to consider all the possible formats; Gore aides say their rival is afraid to meet them head on. There is a history in the Bush family of reluctance to debate: former President George Bush took part in debates in 1988 and 1992, but only after protracted negotiations with the debate commission. In a town meeting-style debate with Mr. Clinton in 1992, Mr. Bush seemed so bored that the camera caught him glancing at his watch.
8-27-2000: Bush aides also indicate that the governor plans to attack Mr. Gore over the 1996 Democratic fund-raising scandals. That issue came into the news last week when Attorney General Janet Reno decided not to seek appointment of a special prosecutor to investigate Mr. Gore's denials that he had been aware of fund-raising irregularities in that campaign. Ms. Reno's repeated refusal to bring in an independent prosecutor on the fund-raising issue has amounted to a disgraceful dereliction of duty. But as this page said two months ago, installing a special prosecutor at the height of the campaign would disrupt the electoral process. Since Mr. Gore has released all his deposition statements on this matter, voters can decide how to judge him, and Mr. Bush is fully entitled to raise this issue throughout the fall.
8-11-2000: Bush and McCain Out West  Gov. George W. Bush and Senator John McCain, who battled bitterly during the primary season, joined forces on the campaign trail.
8-29-2000: Gore Names Drug Companies  Vice President Al Gore escalated his attacks on the pharmaceutical industry, calling for greater competition and singling out Schering-Plough, which makes the allergy medication Claritin, and American Home Products, the parent of Wyeth-Ayerst Laboratories, which makes Lodine, an arthritis medicine.
8-29-2000: Bush Assails Gore on Schools  Gov. George W. Bush said the Clinton administration had complacently presided over ''a national tragedy'' of public school decline. He also said would unveil a proposal next week to have the government subsidize prescription drug purchases by the low-income elderly.
8-29-2000: Bush Balks on Debate Plans  The Bush campaign has raised objections over format, one site and network coverage of three presidential debates proposed by an independent commission that has set up such debates since 1988.
8-29-2000: Bush campaign officials were particularly worried that Mr. Buchanan would use such a forum to hammer away at the governor.
8-28-2000: Gore Challenges Bush On Health Plan Details  Vice President Al Gore called for an intelligent discussion of health care policy as part of the presidential campaign, and suggested that Gov. George W. Bush's proposals, particularly for a prescription drug benefit for the elderly, have yet to meet a ''minimal standard of substance for serious debate.'' Dick Cheney, Mr. Bush's running mate, said Mr. Bush was still working on a plan for financing a prescription drug benefit.
8-17-2000: Gore glanced toward Tipper. Arms folded, she almost imperceptibly shook her head. I thought: Sensible woman.
8-10-2000: Gore's choice of the studious and inspiring Lieberman, like Bush's choice of the serious and solid Cheney, reflects well on both presidential candidates. And kangaroo tickets can surprise; both strong hindquarters of 1920 went all the way.
8-19-2000: Bush Says Gore Uses A Divisive Strategy  Gov. George W. Bush, campaigning in Tennessee, Vice President Al Gore's home state, said Mr. Gore's convention speech sought to sow division and foment class warfare.
8-26-2000: Gore, on the other hand, has specific, targeted tax cuts, which basically say to people, ''If you act the way government wants you to act, you will get to keep some of your money.'' I don't think that's economic policy; it's a social-engineering concept.
8-21-2000: Gore's fake apology -- ''sometimes people say I'm too serious, that I talk too much substance and policy'' --  reminded me of Nixon's ''some of my advisers have suggested I take the easy way.'' (As a White House speechwriter, I often advised ''take the easy way!'' so I could submit a draft in which Nixon could say he rejected that counsel.)
8-7-2000: Gore Aides Laud Daley For Reviving Campaign  Six weeks after taking charge of Vice President Al Gore's presidential campaign, William M. Daley seems to have revived the once flagging morale of the Democratic campaign. Mr. Daley has limited infighting and imposed discipline on the campaign's strategy and message. Mr. Gore's aides say they feel more optimism than at any point since the vice president swept the primaries.
8-7-2000: Gore has put out word that he is composing his own acceptance. Welcome to the world of speechwriting, Al; the nonpartisan blades of exegesis go snicker-snack.
8-9-2000: Gore and Lieberman Make Tolerance the Centerpiece  Vice President Al Gore formally introduced Senator Joseph I. Lieberman of Connecticut as his Democratic running mate, portraying the selection of Mr. Lieberman, an Orthodox Jew, as a measure of his devotion to tolerance and his willingness to break barriers.
8-9-2000: Gore officials today distributed quotations and writings by Mr. Lieberman, including an unpublished article written in June, suggesting that he had moved away from his support for the partial privatization of Social Security because it posed unacceptable risks for retirees.
8-30-2000: Gore Focuses on Health Care  Vice President Al Gore, campaigning in New Mexico, emphasized his plan for providing health care coverage for the country's 11 million uninsured children.
8-8-2000: Gore officials today distributed quotations and writings by Mr. Lieberman, including an unpublished article written in June, suggesting that he had moved away from his support for the partial privatization of Social Security because it posed unacceptable risks for retirees.
8-8-2000: Gore aides said Mr. Lieberman brought a sense of moral rectitude to the ticket as well as a seriousness of purpose, qualities that Mr. Gore was intent on seeking after Gov. George W. Bush, his Republican rival, chose Dick Cheney, the former secretary of defense, as his running mate.
8-8-2000: Gore advisers said the decision, and its timing, a week before the opening of the Democratic convention in Los Angeles, also was grounded in Mr. Gore's recognition that he needed to do something to shake up the race. The latest polls show Mr. Gore trailing Mr. Bush by as much as 17 percentage points.
8-8-2000: Gore Gridlock In the Hamptons
8-8-2000: Gore Chooses Lieberman; First Jew on Major Ticket  Vice President Al Gore asked Senator Joseph I. Lieberman of Connecticut to be his running mate, putting a Jewish candidate on a major party's national ticket for the first time and choosing the first prominent Democrat to chastise President Clinton for his affair with Monica Lewinsky. The formal announcement is today.
8-6-2000: Bushmobile tours ($16) depart from Anna Bay; (61) 500-55 00 66.
8-6-2000: Bush, it turned out, was in town to make peace with John McCain after their bitter primary campaign. The governor and the manager hit the weights, just as they used to in the Rangers' clubhouse before the players would come in. They had lunch, Bush seemingly more interested in the Mets than in McCain.
8-24-2000: Gore treats the question of pardon as mooted by Clinton's dismissal of the idea. And too many have bought the notion that a pardon must be sought or ''accepted.''
8-23-2000: Bush thinks a St. Alban's boy like me can't win on class warfare. He can't even pronounce it! He calls it ''class warfore.'' I can't believe I ever trailed a free-trader who can't even spit out ''tariffs and barriers.'' For awhile he was saying ''terriers and bariffs.'' The other night in Des Moines he abbreviated it to merely ''terrors.''
8-23-2000: Bush Says Data Support His Plan for Tax Cuts  Gov. George W. Bush aggressively defended his sweeping tax cut proposal, saying it was both responsible and easily affordable in light of federal surplus projections, and he produced an assortment of figures to show that the plan would not require cuts in government spending.
8-12-2000: Bush Challenges Gore  Gov. George W. Bush called on Vice President Al Gore to emphatically state his disapproval of President Clinton's sexual conduct in office and to send a clear message that he would maintain a high level of integrity if elected president.
8-12-2000: Bush Challenges Gore  Gov. George W. Bush called on Vice President Al Gore to emphatically state his disapproval of President Clinton's sexual conduct in office and to send a clear message that he would maintain a high level of integrity if elected president.
8-12-2000: Gore advisers have been frustrated over the months with some of Mr. Clinton's moves that were intended to be helpful but often upstaged Mr. Gore. But they said today that Mr. Clinton's most recent comments could help the vice president -- because they expected the light to shine brightly on Mr. Clinton at this point anyway.
8-12-2000: Gore advisers acknowledge that this is an important week for the Clinton/Gore relationship. And they acknowledge that Mr. Gore's selection of a running mate, Senator Joseph I. Lieberman, who was the first Democratic senator to openly chastise Mr. Clinton for his behavior, was part of the larger process of trying to inoculate himself against Mr. Clinton's behavior.
8-13-2000: Gore Preparing to Shift Focus to His Own Agenda  Vice President Al Gore says that in his speech to the Democratic National Convention he will embrace President Clinton for his success in presiding over the economy but leave no doubt that ''I'm running on my own agenda, on my own voice and through my own experiences.
8-14-2000: Bush Defends Cheney's Deal  Gov. George W. Bush defended the generous retirement deal that Dick Cheney received from his former employer. But Democrats questioned the message it sent to working people, especially since Republicans have resisted increasing the minimum wage.
8-14-2000: Gore-Lieberman is not a charismatic ticket. They either win on substance or not at all. But it's awfully hard to get your message heard amid the din of Clinton narcissism, dumb distractions and demonstrations in the street.
8-22-2000: Gore Surges in Several Polls  Six public opinion polls conducted for news organizations since the Democratic convention last week showed Vice President Al Gore leading Gov. George W. Bush, though in two cases by only one percentage point.
8-22-2000: Bush's Plan for Military  Gov. George W. Bush attacked Clinton administration military policies, saying the armed forces had fallen into disrepair.
8-22-2000: Gore advisers said they were not worried that the phrase sent a subliminal message, as Mr. Bush has charged, that ''working families'' was code for class warfare. They said that this tack by the Bush campaign could help Mr. Gore because it steered the conversation away from whether Mr. Bush was more likable than Mr. Gore.
8-25-2000: Bush campaign officials and outside advisers said the campaign had every intention to run commercials that could be defined as negative. But they insisted that they had not settled on when -- and that the timing and exact content were still under discussion.
8-25-2000: Bush Campaign Split on Tactics  The cancellation of a Republican Party television ad attacking Al Gore's trustworthiness has exposed tensions within the Bush campaign over whether to go negative against the vice president now.
6-3-2000: Gore on Absent Fathers  Vice President Al Gore called for measures to encourage absent fathers, whom he called ''the No. 1 cause of child poverty in America,'' to pay child support. He also urged government policies that would ''lift up the institution of marriage.''
6-4-2000: Gore Ally as Target  The new president of the Association of Trial Lawyers of America has given Al Gore a fund-raising advantage and given the Republicans a ready campaign target.
6-4-2000: Gore Ally as Target  The new president of the Association of Trial Lawyers of America has given Al Gore a fund-raising advantage and given the Republicans a ready campaign target.
6-5-2000: Gore Agrees to Rental Repairs  Tenants of a house owned by Vice President Al Gore say their repeated complaints about overflowing toilets and backed up sinks finally a drew a response when Mr. Gore called on Saturday to promise repairs. His response came after the tenants contacted a local television station.
6-2-2000: Bush's Environment Plan  Gov. George W. Bush proposed using federal resources and incentives to coax state governments and private citizens into greater conservation efforts, rather than what he said was the Clinton-Gore administration's more forceful approach.
6-2-2000: Gore Pledge on Fighting Cancer  Vice President Al Gore said he would double federal spending on cancer research and make new cancer treatments and tests available to all Americans who needed them.
6-2-2000: Bush Backs Execution Delay  For the first time in his five years in office, Gov. George W. Bush of Texas agreed to a 30-day reprieve for a death-row inmate, citing concerns that adequate tests on DNA evidence had not been performed.
6-2-2000: Bush Backs Execution Delay  For the first time in his five years in office, Gov. George W. Bush of Texas agreed to a 30-day reprieve for a death-row inmate, citing concerns that adequate tests on DNA evidence had not been performed.
6-18-2000: Bush Criticizes Security Lapses  Gov. George W. Bush crisscrossed Florida and criticized security lapses at the Los Alamos National Laboratory, saying ''America's nuclear security should not be a matter of lost and found.''
6-27-2000: Bush Would Split I.N.S.  Gov. George W. Bush proposed the splitting of the Immigration and Naturalization Service into two separate agencies, one to deal with law enforcement and the other to provide services to immigrants. In a separate speech at a C.O.R.E. gathering in Manhattan, he called for financing mentoring programs for children whose parents are in prison.
6-29-2000: Gore Investigation
6-16-2000: Gore Replaces Chairman Of Presidential Campaign  Vice President Al Gore said Commerce Secretary William M. Daley, regarded as a shrewd operative in Democratic politics, would replace Mr. Gore's campaign chairman, Tony Coelho, who is hospitalized with an inflamed colon. Mr. Daley, a scion of the Chicago political family, will leave the cabinet on July 15. Though Mr. Coelho's departure was attributed to the advice of his doctors, many Democrats said the move was inevitable, given the way that Mr. Gore's campaign had been struggling.
6-16-2000: Bush Plan for the Disabled  Gov. George W. Bush proposed an additional $880 million in federal spending and tax incentives over five years to help disabled Americans with work, public access and new technology.
6-16-2000: Gore aides said the chief difference between their proposals was that the vice president's tax cuts would be limited primarily to families with children and aging parents. Mr. Bush's income tax cut of $1.3 trillion over 10 years would apply to everybody across the board.
6-17-2000: Gore Reaches Out to Labor  Vice President Al Gore tried to tamp down unrest among labor leaders over his appointment of Commerce Secretary William M. Daley, a chief labor nemesis in the fight over the China trade bill, as chairman of his presidential campaign.
6-10-2000: Gore Faulted on Bureaucracy  Gov. George W. Bush assailed Vice President Al Gore's signature effort to streamline government, saying the Clinton administration had not reinvented the bureaucracy but ''simply reshuffled it.''
6-19-2000: Gore advisers, in interviews today, said that the Gore plan is a hedge against what they see as the risky alternative that Mr. Bush is proposing. They said financial institutions would be limited to offering investment options based on broad-based mutual funds for equities, bonds and government securities.
6-26-2000: Gore to Propose Incentives For Clean-Energy Products  Vice President Al Gore will propose economic incentives to encourage cleaner technologies intended to reduce the nation's dependency on foreign oil. Mr. Gore's aides said he would call for billions of dollars in tax breaks and other federal subsidies to encourage consumers to buy clean-energy products, like solar houses, and to encourage companies to develop sources of energy that do not burn oil.
6-26-2000: Bush's plan calls for taking one-sixth of the present payroll tax and allowing workers to invest it in mutual funds in individual accounts. The intent is to get a return on that investment that is higher than the present rate; that equity growth would supplement the Social Security benefit decades from now.
6-26-2000: Gore found he could not get away with labeling that ''a risky scheme'' because more than half of Americans are now stock market investors and know that in the long run, broad indexes do better than risk-free bonds.
6-21-2000: Gore Creek babbles along noisily, just beyond soaring pine trees that seem to reach halfway up the mountains in the distance.
6-21-2000: Gore Creek babbles along noisily, just beyond soaring pine trees that seem to reach halfway up the mountains in the distance.
6-21-2000: Gore Retirement Savings Plan  Vice President Al Gore offered his plan for government-subsidized savings accounts, saying they would help families build wealth for retirement and other uses without putting guaranteed Social Security benefits at risk in the stock market.
6-21-2000: Bush Plan for Math and Science  Gov. George W. Bush proposed spending an additional $2.3 billion over five years in federal funds to improve math and science education in public schools.
6-9-2000: Gore to Focus on Medicare  Vice President Al Gore said he would deliver a speech in New York City next week on preserving Medicare, as his campaign began promoting a theme of guiding the nation during an era of budget surpluses.
6-9-2000: Bush Proposal on Budgets  Gov. George W. Bush proposed an overhaul of the federal budget process to force earlier negotiations and avoid the annual standoffs between Congress and the president over tax policy and spending.
6-8-2000: Gore in California  Vice President Al Gore began a three-day West Coast campaign swing, making a fund-raising stop at a lunch with Native Americans.
6-1-2000: Bush Weighs First Reprieve To Allow DNA Testing  Gov. George W. Bush of Texas said he was considering a temporary grant of clemency for a man scheduled to be executed today so that DNA evidence could be tested. It would be the first such stay he issued. The inmate, Ricky McGinn, was convicted of raping and murdering his 12-year-old stepdaughter.
6-1-2000: Gore Mental Health Plan  Vice President Al Gore called for legislation requiring health insurers to provide children with mental health benefits comparable to coverage for physical ailments. Mr. Gore, whose wife, Tipper, battled depression after their son was injured in a car accident in 1989, also promised to make mental health care a priority in his administration.
6-1-2000: Bush aides said today that they did recognize that this case was one of the more attention-getting death penalty cases, but they insisted that such factors have no bearing on how Mr. Bush acts or on what he says. Yet the case also affords Mr. Bush a chance to speak in a moderate voice on the death penalty without seeming to pander, because Mr. McGinn's case involves some understandable questions of evidence that have drawn national attention.
6-6-2000: Gore at New York Fund-Raiser  Vice President Al Gore helped raise $3.7 million for the Democratic Congressional Campaign Committee at a Manhattan event. Earlier, he proposed putting nearly all federal government services online.
6-24-2000: Gore Says Aides Failed To Explain Fund-Raiser  In a caustic exchange with a senior Justice Department prosecutor two months ago, Vice President Al Gore denied being told by aides that a 1996 luncheon at a Buddhist temple was a fund-raising event, according to a transcript of the interview that Mr. Gore's lawyers made public.
6-24-2000: Bush Seeks to Change Subject  Gov. George W. Bush sought to shift attention away from the execution of Gary Graham in Texas on Thursday night and toward Vice President Al Gore's views and record on a range of issues, especially fossil fuels and gasoline prices.
6-23-2000: Gore advisers said they had moved aggressively behind the scenes to try to keep Mr. Hoffa from endorsing Mr. Nader, to the point where they had directed projects through federal agencies that would use Teamsters.
6-15-2000: Gore warmed to the subject: ''I think that people ought to have a right to expect that will remain private unless they affirmatively give up that right for whatever reason. And I don't think the current law goes far enough in protecting them.  Does that answer your question?''
6-15-2000: Gore's stand on the right to privacy is forceful. Next is for one of us to pin down George W. Bush.
6-14-2000: Gore Cites Clinton Record In a Call for New Spending  Vice President Al Gore, invoking the economic record of President Clinton, called for a new retirement program to supplement Social Security, elimination of the nation's debt in 12 years, modest tax cuts and systematic spending increases for education, health care and the environment. His speech in Manhattan was the first in a series elaborating on his message of ''prosperity and progress.''
6-22-2000: Gore Effort Casts Bush As Beholden to Big Oil  The Gore campaign has begun an effort to paint Gov. George W. Bush, a onetime oil company executive, as a tool of oil interests that are relentlessly gouging consumers. The campaign is worried that voters will blame the Clinton administration -- and Vice President Al Gore -- for the recent surge in gasoline prices.
6-22-2000: Gore Effort Casts Bush As Beholden to Big Oil  The Gore campaign has begun an effort to paint Gov. George W. Bush, a onetime oil company executive, as a tool of oil interests that are relentlessly gouging consumers. The campaign is worried that voters will blame the Clinton administration -- and Vice President Al Gore -- for the recent surge in gasoline prices.
6-22-2000: Gore officials see the emergence of this issue as an opportunity to link Mr. Bush directly in the public mind with the oil companies and portray Mr. Gore as on the side of working families. This has been a longtime goal of the Gore campaign, but it has not succeeded so far.
